content/en/observability_pipelines/destinations/google_chronicle.md, before:

---
title: Google Chronicle Destination
disable_toc: false
---
Use Observability Pipelines' Google Chronicle destination to send logs to Google Chronicle.

The Observability Pipelines Worker uses standard Google authentication methods. See [Authentication methods at Google][3] for more information about choosing the authentication method for your use case.

## Setup

Set up the Google Chronicle destination and its environment variables when you [set up a pipeline][1]. The information below is configured in the pipelines UI.

### Set up the destination

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/chronicle %}}

### Set the environment variables

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/chronicle %}}

### How the destination works

#### Event batching

A batch of events is flushed when one of these parameters is met. See [event batching][2] for more information.

| Max Events     | Max Bytes       | Timeout (seconds)   |
|----------------|-----------------|---------------------|
| None           | 1,000,000       | 15                  |

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines
[2]: /observability_pipelines/destinations/#event-batching
[3]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#auth-flowchart

Commit message:

Move OP destination shortcodes (#33278)
* move destination shortcodes

* fix datadog logs

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Bryce Eadie <bryce.eadie@datadoghq.com>

* apply image and link fixes

* Fix link

---------

Co-authored-by: Bryce Eadie <bryce.eadie@datadoghq.com>

content/en/observability_pipelines/destinations/google_chronicle.md, after:

---
title: Google Chronicle Destination
disable_toc: false
---
Use Observability Pipelines' Google Chronicle destination to send logs to Google Chronicle.

The Observability Pipelines Worker uses standard Google authentication methods. See [Authentication methods at Google][3] for more information about choosing the authentication method for your use case.

## Setup

Set up the Google Chronicle destination and its environment variables when you [set up a pipeline][1]. The information below is configured in the pipelines UI.

### Set up the destination

To set up the Worker's Google Chronicle destination:

1. Enter the customer ID for your Google Chronicle instance.
1. If you have a credentials JSON file, enter the path to your credentials JSON file. The credentials file must be placed under `DD_OP_DATA_DIR/config`. Alternatively, you can use the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable to provide the credential path.
    - If you're using [workload identity][6] on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` is provided for you.
    - The Worker uses standard [Google authentication methods][7].
1. Select **JSON** or **Raw** encoding in the dropdown menu.
1. Enter the log type. See [template syntax][4] if you want to route logs to different log types based on specific fields in your logs.
1. Optionally, toggle the switch to enable **Buffering Options**.<br>**Note**: Buffering options is in Preview. Contact your account manager to request access.
	- If left disabled, the maximum size for buffering is 500 events.
	- If enabled:
		1. Select the buffer type you want to set (**Memory** or **Disk**).
		1. Enter the buffer size and select the unit.

**Note**: Logs sent to the Google Chronicle destination must have ingestion labels. For example, if the logs are from a A10 load balancer, it must have the ingestion label `A10_LOAD_BALANCER`. See Google Cloud's [Support log types with a default parser][5] for a list of available log types and their respective ingestion labels.

### Set the environment variables

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/chronicle %}}

### How the destination works

#### Event batching

A batch of events is flushed when one of these parameters is met. See [event batching][2] for more information.

| Max Events     | Max Bytes       | Timeout (seconds)   |
|----------------|-----------------|---------------------|
| None           | 1,000,000       | 15                  |

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines
[2]: /observability_pipelines/destinations/#event-batching
[3]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#auth-flowchart
[4]: /observability_pipelines/destinations/#template-syntax
[5]: https://cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/ingestion/parser-list/supported-default-parsers#with-default-parser
[6]:https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/workload-identity
[7]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#auth-flowchart
