layouts/shortcodes/observability_pipelines/destination_settings/chronicle.en.md, before:

To set up the Worker's Google Chronicle destination:

1. Enter the customer ID for your Google Chronicle instance.
1. If you have a credentials JSON file, enter the path to your credentials JSON file. The credentials file must be placed under `DD_OP_DATA_DIR/config`. Alternatively, you can use the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable to provide the credential path.
    - If you're using [workload identity][10004] on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` is provided for you.
    - The Worker uses standard [Google authentication methods][10005].
1. Select **JSON** or **Raw** encoding in the dropdown menu.
1. Enter the log type. See [template syntax][10002] if you want to route logs to different log types based on specific fields in your logs.
1. Optionally, toggle the switch to enable **Buffering Options**.<br>**Note**: Buffering options is in Preview. Contact your account manager to request access.
	- If left disabled, the maximum size for buffering is 500 events.
	- If enabled:
		1. Select the buffer type you want to set (**Memory** or **Disk**).
		1. Enter the buffer size and select the unit.

**Note**: Logs sent to the Google Chronicle destination must have ingestion labels. For example, if the logs are from a A10 load balancer, it must have the ingestion label `A10_LOAD_BALANCER`. See Google Cloud's [Support log types with a default parser][10003] for a list of available log types and their respective ingestion labels.

[10002]: /observability_pipelines/destinations/#template-syntax
[10003]: https://cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/ingestion/parser-list/supported-default-parsers#with-default-parser
[10004]:https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/workload-identity
[10005]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#auth-flowchart

Commit message:

[DOCS-12318] Rename Google Chronicle to Google SecOps (#33655)
* rename chronicle to secops

* update env var

layouts/shortcodes/observability_pipelines/destination_settings/chronicle.en.md, after:

To set up the Worker's Google SecOps destination:

1. Enter the customer ID for your Google SecOps instance.
1. If you have a credentials JSON file, enter the path to your credentials JSON file. The credentials file must be placed under `DD_OP_DATA_DIR/config`. Alternatively, you can use the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable to provide the credential path.
    - If you're using [workload identity][10004] on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` is provided for you.
    - The Worker uses standard [Google authentication methods][10005].
1. Select **JSON** or **Raw** encoding in the dropdown menu.
1. Enter the log type. See [template syntax][10002] if you want to route logs to different log types based on specific fields in your logs.
1. Optionally, toggle the switch to enable **Buffering Options**.<br>**Note**: Buffering options is in Preview. Contact your account manager to request access.
	- If left disabled, the maximum size for buffering is 500 events.
	- If enabled:
		1. Select the buffer type you want to set (**Memory** or **Disk**).
		1. Enter the buffer size and select the unit.

**Note**: Logs sent to the Google SecOps destination must have ingestion labels. For example, if the logs are from a A10 load balancer, it must have the ingestion label `A10_LOAD_BALANCER`. See Google Cloud's [Support log types with a default parser][10003] for a list of available log types and their respective ingestion labels.

[10002]: /observability_pipelines/destinations/#template-syntax
[10003]: https://cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/ingestion/parser-list/supported-default-parsers#with-default-parser
[10004]:https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/workload-identity
[10005]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication#auth-flowchart
