---
title: Set up Tracing on a GitLab Pipeline
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: "/continuous_integration/explore_pipelines"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Troubleshooting CI"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Compatibility

Supported GitLab versions:
* GitLab.com (SaaS)
* GitLab >= 14.1 (self-hosted)

Other supported versions with additional configuration:
* GitLab >= 13.7.0 (self-hosted), by enabling the `datadog_ci_integration` feature flag.

## Configuring the Datadog integration

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitLab.com" %}}

Configure the integration on a [project][1] or [group][2] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project or group you want to instrument.

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-group-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 14.1" %}}

Configure the integration on a [project][1] or [group][2] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project or group you want to instrument.

You can also activate the integration at the GitLab [instance][3] level, by going to **Admin > Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-group-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-instance-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GitLab &lt; 14.1" %}}

Enable the `datadog_ci_integration` [feature flag][1] to activate the integration. Run one of the following commands, which use GitLab's [Rails Runner][2], depending on your installation type:

**Omnibus installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
sudo gitlab-rails runner "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

**From source installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rails runner \
  -e production \
  "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

**Kubernetes installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
kubectl exec -it <task-runner-pod-name> -- \
  /srv/gitlab/bin/rails runner "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

Then, configure the integration on a [project][3] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project you want to instrument.

<div class="alert alert-warning"><strong>Note</strong>: Due to a <a href="https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/335218">bug</a> in early versions of GitLab, the Datadog integration cannot be enabled at <strong>group or instance</strong> level on <strong>GitLab versions < 14.1</strong>, even if the option is available on GitLab's UI</div>

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/feature_flags.html
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/operations/rails_console.html#using-the-rails-runner
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Fill in the integration configuration settings:

**Active**
: Enables the integration.

**Datadog site**
: Specifies which [Datadog site][1] to send data to.<br/>
**Default**: `datadoghq.com`<br/>
**Selected site**: {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}<br/>

**API URL** (optional)
: Allows overriding the API URL used for sending data directly, only used in advanced scenarios.<br/>
**Default**: (empty, no override)

**API key**
: Specifies which API key to use when sending data. You can generate one in the [APIs tab][2] of the Integrations section on Datadog.

**Service** (optional)
: Specifies which service name to attach to each span generated by the integration. Use this to differentiate between GitLab instances.<br/>
**Default**: `gitlab-ci`

**Env** (optional)
: Specifies which environment (`env` tag) to attach to each span generated by the integration. Use this to differentiate between groups of GitLab instances (for example: staging or production).<br/>
**Default**: `none`

**Tags** (optional)
: Specifies any custom tags to attach to each span generated by the integration. Provide one tag per line in the format: `key:value`.<br/>
**Default**: (empty, no additional tags)

You can test the integration with the **Test settings** button (only available when configuring the integration on a project). After it's successful, click **Save changes** to finish the integration set up.

## Integrating through webhooks

As an alternative to using the native Datadog integration, you can use [webhooks][3] to send pipeline data to Datadog.

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: The native Datadog integration is the recommended approach and the option that is actively under development.</div>

Go to **Settings > Webhooks** in your repository (or GitLab instance settings), and add a new webhook:

- **URL**: <code>https://webhook-intake.{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}/api/v2/webhook/?dd-api-key=<API_KEY></code> where `<API_KEY>` is your [Datadog API key][2].
- **Secret Token**: leave blank
- **Trigger**: Select `Job events` and `Pipeline events`.

To set custom `env` or `service` parameters, add more query parameters in the webhooks URL: `&env=<YOUR_ENV>&service=<YOUR_SERVICE_NAME>`

To set custom tags, add to the **Webhook URL** a URL-encoded query parameter `tags`, with `key:value` pairs separated by commas. If the tag pair contains any commas, quotes are needed. For example, to add `key1:value1,"key2: value with , comma",key3:value3`, the following string would need to be appended to the 
**Webhook URL**: `?tags=key1%3Avalue1%2C%22key2%3A+value+with+%2C+comma%22%2Ckey3%3Avalue3`

## Visualize pipeline data in Datadog

After the integration is successfully configured, the [Pipelines][4] and [Pipeline Executions][5] pages populate with data after the pipelines finish.

**Note**: The Pipelines page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /getting_started/site/
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/integrations/webhooks.html
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipelines
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipeline-executions
