content/en/network_monitoring/devices/profiles.md, before:

---
title: NDM Profiles
kind: documentation
aliases:
    - /network_performance_monitoring/devices/profiles/
further_reading:
- link: "/network_monitoring/devices/data"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Data Collected with Network Device Monitoring"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-snmp-with-datadog/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Monitor SNMP with Datadog"
---


## Overview

Network Device Monitoring uses profiles to tell the Datadog Agent the metrics and associated tags to collect. A profile is a collection of OIDs associated with a device.

## Configuration

By default, all profiles in the Agent configuration directory are loaded. To customize the specific profiles for collection, explicitly reference them by filename under `definition_file`, or provide an inline list under `definition`. Any of the Datadog profiles can be listed by name. Additional custom profiles can be referenced by the file path in the config, or placed in the configuration directory.

**Note**: The generic profile is [generic-device.yaml][1], which supports routers, switches, etc.

### sysOID mapped devices

Profiles allow Network Device Monitoring to reuse metric definitions across several device types or instances. Profiles define which metrics to collect and how to transform them into Datadog metrics. Each profile is expected to monitor a class of similar devices from the same vendor. They are automatically used by the Datadog Agent by comparing the sysObjectIds of the network device with the ones defined in the profile file.

The Datadog Agent provides out-of-the-box profiles in the `conf.d/snmp.d/default_profiles` directory. This directory is cleaned and reset upon Agent upgrades so do not save anything there. You can write your own custom profiles and extend existing ones by putting files in the `conf.d/snmp.d/profiles` directory.

The following example profile is used on any network device whose `sysobjectid` either _is_ `1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.10` or _starts with_ `1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.2.`:

```yaml
sysobjectid:
 - 1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.10
 - 1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.2.*

metrics:
  - MIB: CPQHLTH-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.232.6.2.8.1.0
      name: cpqHeSysUtilLifeTime
```



If you need different metrics for network devices that share the same `sysobjectid`, you can write profiles without any `sysobjectid`, and configure the `profile` option in the SNMP configuration.

```yaml
instances:
   - ip_address: 192.168.34.10
     profile: my-profile1
   - ip_address: 192.168.34.11
     profile: my-profile2
   - ip_address: 192.168.34.13
     # For this device, the Agent will fetch the sysObjectID of the device and use the closest match
```

### Metric definition by profile

Profiles can be used interchangeably, meaning devices that share MIB dependencies can reuse the same profiles. For example, the [Cisco c3850 profile][2] can be used across many Cisco switches.

For more Datadog provided profiles, see the [GitHub repository][3].

### Metadata definition by profile

In the profiles's metadata section, you can define where and how metadata is collected. Values can be static or come from an OID value.
See the [DeviceMetadata][4] section for the supported fields.

With Datadog Agent version 7.52 and later, there is a `device_type` field for device metadata. This can be set manually in the profile and can be used to filter on specific types of devices. Accepted values include:

- access_point
- firewall
- load_balancer
- pdu
- printer
- router
- sd-wan
- sensor
- server
- storage
- switch
- ups
- wlc

See the [Profile Format Reference][5] for more information about profiles formats.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}


[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/default_profiles/generic-device.yaml
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/default_profiles/cisco-3850.yaml
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/tree/master/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/default_profiles
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/main/pkg/networkdevice/metadata/payload.go#L51-L76
[5]: https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/tutorials/snmp/profile-format/

Commit message:

[DOCS-7579] NDM profile onboarding (#23435)
* first commit NDM profile onboarding

* adding this as a network device - guide

* adding information

* adding info and screen shots to NDM Device onboarding

* updates to NDM onboarding

* fixing screenshot

* adding collapsable sections where it's verbose

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Esther Kim <esther.kim@datadoghq.com>

* updating screenshots from PM

* fixing links

* small fix

* additional fix per PM - maintaining Yaml download

* updating screenshot, removing a line

* fixing merge conflict

* update from Eng feedback

---------

Co-authored-by: Esther Kim <esther.kim@datadoghq.com>

content/en/network_monitoring/devices/profiles.md, after:

---
title: NDM Profiles
kind: documentation
aliases:
    - /network_performance_monitoring/devices/profiles/
further_reading:
- link: "/network_monitoring/devices/data"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Data Collected with Network Device Monitoring"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-snmp-with-datadog/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Monitor SNMP with Datadog"
---

## Overview

Network Device Monitoring uses profiles to tell the Datadog Agent the metrics and associated tags to collect. A profile is a collection of OIDs associated with a device. 

## Configuration

By default, all profiles in the Agent configuration directory are loaded. To customize the specific profiles for collection, explicitly reference them by filename under `definition_file`, or provide an inline list under `definition`. Any of the Datadog profiles can be listed by name. Additional custom profiles can be referenced by the file path in the config, or placed in the configuration directory.

**Note**: The generic profile is [generic-device.yaml][1], which supports routers, switches, and other devices.

<div class="alert alert-info">
If you would like to build a device profile using the GUI based experience, review the <a href="/network_monitoring/devices/guide/device_profiles/">Getting Started with Device Profiles</a> documentation.
</div>

### sysOID mapped devices

Profiles allow Network Device Monitoring to reuse metric definitions across several device types or instances. Profiles define which metrics to collect and how to transform them into Datadog metrics. Each profile is expected to monitor a class of similar devices from the same vendor. They are automatically used by the Datadog Agent by comparing the sysObjectIds of the network device with the ones defined in the profile file.

The Datadog Agent provides out-of-the-box profiles in the `conf.d/snmp.d/default_profiles` directory. This directory is cleaned and reset upon Agent upgrades so do not save anything there. You can write your own custom profiles and extend existing ones by putting files in the `conf.d/snmp.d/profiles` directory.

The following example profile is used on any network device whose `sysobjectid` either _is_ `1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.10` or _starts with_ `1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.2.`:

```yaml
sysobjectid:
 - 1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.10
 - 1.3.6.1.4.1.232.9.4.2.*

metrics:
  - MIB: CPQHLTH-MIB
    symbol:
      OID: 1.3.6.1.4.1.232.6.2.8.1.0
      name: cpqHeSysUtilLifeTime
```

If you need different metrics for network devices that share the same `sysobjectid`, you can write profiles without any `sysobjectid`, and configure the `profile` option in the SNMP configuration.

```yaml
instances:
   - ip_address: 192.168.34.10
     profile: my-profile1
   - ip_address: 192.168.34.11
     profile: my-profile2
   - ip_address: 192.168.34.13
     # For this device, the Agent will fetch the sysObjectID of the device and use the closest match
```

### Metric definition by profile

Profiles can be used interchangeably, meaning devices that share MIB dependencies can reuse the same profiles. For example, the [Cisco c3850 profile][2] can be used across many Cisco switches.

For more Datadog provided profiles, see the [GitHub repository][3].

### Metadata definition by profile

In the profiles's metadata section, you can define where and how metadata is collected. Values can be static or come from an OID value.
See the [DeviceMetadata][4] section for the supported fields.

With Datadog Agent version 7.52 and later, there is a `device_type` field for device metadata. This can be set manually in the profile and can be used to filter on specific types of devices. Accepted values include:

- access_point
- firewall
- load_balancer
- pdu
- printer
- router
- sd-wan
- sensor
- server
- storage
- switch
- ups
- wlc

See the [Profile Format Reference][5] for more information about profiles formats.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}


[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/default_profiles/generic-device.yaml
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/default_profiles/cisco-3850.yaml
[3]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/tree/master/snmp/datadog_checks/snmp/data/default_profiles
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/main/pkg/networkdevice/metadata/payload.go#L51-L76
[5]: https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/tutorials/snmp/profile-format/
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/devices/
[7]: /network_monitoring/devices/guide/device_profiles/
