content/en/service_management/workflows/trigger.md, before:

---
title: Trigger a workflow
kind: documentation
disable_toc: false
algolia:
  tags: ['workflow', 'workflows', 'workflow automation']
aliases:
- /workflows/trigger
further_reading:
- link: "/getting_started/workflow_automation/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Getting Started with Workflow Automation"
- link: "/service_management/workflows/access/#service-accounts/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about Service Accounts for workflows"
- link: "dashboards"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about setting up a dashboard"
- link: "/security"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about Security Signals"
- link: "monitors"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about Monitors"
- link: "/security/cloud_security_management/workflows"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Automate Security Workflows with Workflow Automation"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">Workflow Automation is not supported for your selected <a href="/getting_started/site">Datadog site</a> ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}).</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

You can trigger a workflow manually or automatically.

A workflow can either run with the identity of the user who owns it, or with the identity of a service account associated with the workflow. For more information on service accounts, see [Service accounts for Workflow Automation][1].

## Manually trigger a workflow

To trigger a workflow manually:
1. From the workflow page, click **Run**.
1. Enter the values for existing trigger variables.
1. When you're ready to run the workflow, click **Save & Run**.

## Trigger a workflow from a Dashboard

To trigger a workflow from a Dashboard, add the **Run Workflow** widget:
1. From your Dashboard, click **Add Widget**.
1. Search for `workflows` and add the **Run Workflow** widget.
1. Under **Select the workflow**, find your workflow in the dropdown menu.
1. Map dashboard template variables to workflow input parameters. This allows the values of your dashboard template variables to be mapped directly to the input parameters when you run the workflow.
1. Enter a title for the widget and click **Save**.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/trigger-from-dashboard2.png" alt="Click Run Workflow to trigger a workflow from Dashboard widget." >}}

To run the workflow:
1. Click **Run Workflow** on your dashboard widget.
1. Under **Execution parameters**, any template variables you mapped to workflow inputs are automatically populated. Enter the values for any unmapped execution parameters, or edit the existing values if needed.
1. Click **Run** to run the workflow.

## Trigger a workflow from a workflow

You can trigger a child workflow from another workflow using the **Trigger Workflow** action. For example, if you have a complex series of steps that you need to reuse in several workflows, there's no need to recreate those steps for all of your workflows. Instead, add the steps to a new workflow and trigger it in your other workflows using the Trigger Workflow action.

<div class="alert alert-info">For billing purposes, triggering a child workflow registers as a new workflow execution.</div>

If the child workflow has [input parameters][5], these parameters appear as required fields in the Trigger Workflow action. In the example below, the **service_name** input parameter is required because `service_name` is set as an input parameter in the child workflow.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/trigger-workflow-step.png" alt="The service_name input parameter is required in the child workflow" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Trigger a workflow from a Monitor

To trigger a workflow from a Monitor:
1. On the workflow canvas, click **Add an Automated Trigger** and select **@mention**.
1. Save your Workflow.
1. Navigate to the [**Monitors** page][2] in Datadog.
1. Find the monitor you'd like to use to trigger the workflow and edit it, or create a new monitor.
1. In the message section, add the full workflow mention name:
   - The mention name should start with `@workflow-`. For example, `@workflow-my-workflow`
   - To pass trigger variables into the workflow, use a comma-separated list with the syntax `@workflow-name(key=value, key=value)`. For example, `@workflow-my-workflow(name="Bits", alert_threshold=threshold)`
1. Save the monitor.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/monitor-trigger.png" alt="Add a monitor trigger to the message section of a Monitor" >}}

Each time the monitor threshold is hit, the monitor triggers a workflow run.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

### Test a monitor trigger

You can test a monitor trigger during workflow creation. Testing a monitor generates a snippet that you can paste into your monitor notification window to trigger the workflow.

To test a monitor trigger:
1. Select the monitor trigger action in your workflow.
1. Click **Test from Monitor**.
1. If your monitor passes inputs to the workflow, enter a test value under **Workflow Inputs**.
1. Select a monitor to test.
1. Select a monitor state.
1. Click **Run From Monitor**.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/test-monitor.mp4" alt="Test your monitor using the Test from Monitor button" video="true" >}}

## Trigger a workflow from a Security Signal

You can trigger a Workflow automatically for any Security Signal, or manually trigger a Workflow from a Cloud SIEM Security Signal panel.

### Trigger a workflow automatically from Security Signal Notification Rules

You can set up a workflow to trigger every time a Security Signal Notification Rule fires.

To trigger a workflow from a Notification Rule:
1. On the workflow canvas, click **Add an Automated Trigger** and select **@mention**.
1. Next to **@workflow-**, enter a mention name for the trigger. Your mention name must be unique.
1. Save your Workflow.
1. From the [Configuration][3] page, find the notification rule you'd like to use to trigger your workflow, or create a new rule.
1. In the **Recipient** section, add the full workflow mention name. For example, `@workflow-my-workflow`.
1. Add a unique notification name.
1. Click **Save and Activate**.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/notification-rule-trigger2.png" alt="Add the workflow name to the recipient section of a Notification rule" >}}

Each time the Notification Rule fires, it triggers a workflow run.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

### Trigger a workflow manually from Cloud SIEM Security Signals

You can manually start a workflow from a Cloud SIEM Security Signal panel.

1. Click **Run Workflow** at the top of the Security Signal panel.
1. In the search modal, enter the name of the workflow you want to run. Select the workflow. 
1. If your workflow requires input parameters, enter the values as required. You can copy the values from the Signal object JSON displayed next to the input parameters, and paste them into the parameter fields.
1. Click **Run**.
1. You can see the workflow run status in the **Workflow** section of the Security Signal.

For additional examples of Security workflows you can automate, see [Automate Security Workflows with Workflow Automation][4].

## Trigger a workflow from incidents

To trigger a workflow from incidents, create an incident notification rule:
1. Create a workflow with a **Monitor, Incident, or Security signal** trigger, or add a **Monitor, Incident, or Security signal** trigger to an existing workflow.
1. Click on the trigger in the workflow canvas and copy the **Mention handle**.
1. From the [Incidents Settings][6] page, select **Rules**.
1. Click **New Rule**.
1. Configure a **Severity**, **Service**, and **Other attributes** for your notification rule.
1. Under **Notify**, paste the workflow handle that you copied earlier.
1. Enter a **Template** and configure the **Renotify** settings for the notification rule.
1. Click **Save**.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

## Trigger a workflow with an API call

Triggering a workflow using an API call requires an [API key][8] and an [application key][9] with the `workflows_run` scope. For information on adding a scope to an application key, see [Scopes][10].

<div class="alert alert-info">Unscoped keys do not include the <code>workflows_run</code> scope by default. Ensure that you're following security best practice and use an application key with the minimum scopes needed to perform the desired task.</div>

To trigger a workflow with an API call:
1. Create a workflow with a **API** trigger, or add an **API** trigger to an existing workflow.
1. On the workflow canvas, click **API** trigger and note the example workflow cURL request, which includes the required headers and data to trigger your workflow. An API call to trigger a workflow looks something like this:
   ```curl
   curl -X POST \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -H "DD-API-KEY: ${DD_API_KEY}" \
     -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${DD_APP_KEY}" \
     -d {} \
     https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/workflows/abcd-1234/instances
   ```
1. Click **Save**.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

## Trigger a workflow on a schedule

To schedule a workflow run:
1. On the workflow canvas, click **Add an Automated Trigger** and select **Schedule**.
1. Click **Create** to create a service account. For more information, see [Use a service account][1].
1. Enter a time and frequency for the run.
1. (Optional) Enter a description for the workflow in the **Memo** field.
1. Click **Save**.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

## Run history

After you trigger a workflow, the workflow page switches to the workflow's **Run History**. Click **Configuration** or **Run History** in the top-left to switch between the configuration and run history views.

Use run history to watch the progress of a triggered workflow, or debug a failed step. Clicking on a failed step gives you the inputs, outputs, and execution context for the step, as well as the associated error message. The example below shows a failed _GitHub pull request status_ step. The error message shows that the step failed due to missing permissions:

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/failed-step4.png" alt="A workflow with a failed step." >}}

The initial run history for a workflow provides a panel with the list of previous workflow executions and whether each execution succeeded or failed. Failures include a link to the failed workflow step. Click on a workflow execution in the list to inspect it. You can return to the initial execution history at any time by clicking anywhere on the workflow canvas.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

<br>Do you have questions or feedback? Join the **#workflows** channel on the [Datadog Community Slack][7].

[1]: /service_management/workflows/access/#use-a-service-account
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/monitors/manage
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/configuration/notification-rules
[4]: /security/cloud_security_management/workflows
[5]: /service_management/workflows/build/#input-parameters
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/incidents/settings#Rules
[7]: https://datadoghq.slack.com/
[8]: /account_management/api-app-keys/#api-keys
[9]: /account_management/api-app-keys/#application-keys
[10]: /account_management/api-app-keys/#scopes
[11]: https://www.datadoghq.com/pricing/?product=workflow-automation#products

Commit message:

Update API example with parameters

content/en/service_management/workflows/trigger.md, after:

---
title: Trigger a workflow
kind: documentation
disable_toc: false
algolia:
  tags: ['workflow', 'workflows', 'workflow automation']
aliases:
- /workflows/trigger
further_reading:
- link: "/getting_started/workflow_automation/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Getting Started with Workflow Automation"
- link: "/service_management/workflows/access/#service-accounts/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about Service Accounts for workflows"
- link: "dashboards"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about setting up a dashboard"
- link: "/security"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about Security Signals"
- link: "monitors"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Find out more about Monitors"
- link: "/security/cloud_security_management/workflows"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Automate Security Workflows with Workflow Automation"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">Workflow Automation is not supported for your selected <a href="/getting_started/site">Datadog site</a> ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}).</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

You can trigger a workflow manually or automatically.

A workflow can either run with the identity of the user who owns it, or with the identity of a service account associated with the workflow. For more information on service accounts, see [Service accounts for Workflow Automation][1].

## Manually trigger a workflow

To trigger a workflow manually:
1. From the workflow page, click **Run**.
1. Enter the values for existing trigger variables.
1. When you're ready to run the workflow, click **Save & Run**.

## Trigger a workflow from a Dashboard

To trigger a workflow from a Dashboard, add the **Run Workflow** widget:
1. From your Dashboard, click **Add Widget**.
1. Search for `workflows` and add the **Run Workflow** widget.
1. Under **Select the workflow**, find your workflow in the dropdown menu.
1. Map dashboard template variables to workflow input parameters. This allows the values of your dashboard template variables to be mapped directly to the input parameters when you run the workflow.
1. Enter a title for the widget and click **Save**.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/trigger-from-dashboard2.png" alt="Click Run Workflow to trigger a workflow from Dashboard widget." >}}

To run the workflow:
1. Click **Run Workflow** on your dashboard widget.
1. Under **Execution parameters**, any template variables you mapped to workflow inputs are automatically populated. Enter the values for any unmapped execution parameters, or edit the existing values if needed.
1. Click **Run** to run the workflow.

## Trigger a workflow from a workflow

You can trigger a child workflow from another workflow using the **Trigger Workflow** action. For example, if you have a complex series of steps that you need to reuse in several workflows, there's no need to recreate those steps for all of your workflows. Instead, add the steps to a new workflow and trigger it in your other workflows using the Trigger Workflow action.

<div class="alert alert-info">For billing purposes, triggering a child workflow registers as a new workflow execution.</div>

If the child workflow has [input parameters][5], these parameters appear as required fields in the Trigger Workflow action. In the example below, the **service_name** input parameter is required because `service_name` is set as an input parameter in the child workflow.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/trigger-workflow-step.png" alt="The service_name input parameter is required in the child workflow" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Trigger a workflow from a Monitor

To trigger a workflow from a Monitor:
1. On the workflow canvas, click **Add an Automated Trigger** and select **@mention**.
1. Save your Workflow.
1. Navigate to the [**Monitors** page][2] in Datadog.
1. Find the monitor you'd like to use to trigger the workflow and edit it, or create a new monitor.
1. In the message section, add the full workflow mention name:
   - The mention name should start with `@workflow-`. For example, `@workflow-my-workflow`
   - To pass trigger variables into the workflow, use a comma-separated list with the syntax `@workflow-name(key=value, key=value)`. For example, `@workflow-my-workflow(name="Bits", alert_threshold=threshold)`
1. Save the monitor.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/monitor-trigger.png" alt="Add a monitor trigger to the message section of a Monitor" >}}

Each time the monitor threshold is hit, the monitor triggers a workflow run.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

### Test a monitor trigger

You can test a monitor trigger during workflow creation. Testing a monitor generates a snippet that you can paste into your monitor notification window to trigger the workflow.

To test a monitor trigger:
1. Select the monitor trigger action in your workflow.
1. Click **Test from Monitor**.
1. If your monitor passes inputs to the workflow, enter a test value under **Workflow Inputs**.
1. Select a monitor to test.
1. Select a monitor state.
1. Click **Run From Monitor**.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/test-monitor.mp4" alt="Test your monitor using the Test from Monitor button" video="true" >}}

## Trigger a workflow from a Security Signal

You can trigger a Workflow automatically for any Security Signal, or manually trigger a Workflow from a Cloud SIEM Security Signal panel.

### Trigger a workflow automatically from Security Signal Notification Rules

You can set up a workflow to trigger every time a Security Signal Notification Rule fires.

To trigger a workflow from a Notification Rule:
1. On the workflow canvas, click **Add an Automated Trigger** and select **@mention**.
1. Next to **@workflow-**, enter a mention name for the trigger. Your mention name must be unique.
1. Save your Workflow.
1. From the [Configuration][3] page, find the notification rule you'd like to use to trigger your workflow, or create a new rule.
1. In the **Recipient** section, add the full workflow mention name. For example, `@workflow-my-workflow`.
1. Add a unique notification name.
1. Click **Save and Activate**.

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/notification-rule-trigger2.png" alt="Add the workflow name to the recipient section of a Notification rule" >}}

Each time the Notification Rule fires, it triggers a workflow run.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

### Trigger a workflow manually from Cloud SIEM Security Signals

You can manually start a workflow from a Cloud SIEM Security Signal panel.

1. Click **Run Workflow** at the top of the Security Signal panel.
1. In the search modal, enter the name of the workflow you want to run. Select the workflow. 
1. If your workflow requires input parameters, enter the values as required. You can copy the values from the Signal object JSON displayed next to the input parameters, and paste them into the parameter fields.
1. Click **Run**.
1. You can see the workflow run status in the **Workflow** section of the Security Signal.

For additional examples of Security workflows you can automate, see [Automate Security Workflows with Workflow Automation][4].

## Trigger a workflow from incidents

To trigger a workflow from incidents, create an incident notification rule:
1. Create a workflow with a **Monitor, Incident, or Security signal** trigger, or add a **Monitor, Incident, or Security signal** trigger to an existing workflow.
1. Click on the trigger in the workflow canvas and copy the **Mention handle**.
1. From the [Incidents Settings][6] page, select **Rules**.
1. Click **New Rule**.
1. Configure a **Severity**, **Service**, and **Other attributes** for your notification rule.
1. Under **Notify**, paste the workflow handle that you copied earlier.
1. Enter a **Template** and configure the **Renotify** settings for the notification rule.
1. Click **Save**.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

## Trigger a workflow with an API call

Triggering a workflow using an API call requires an [API key][8] and an [application key][9] with the `workflows_run` scope. For information on adding a scope to an application key, see [Scopes][10].

<div class="alert alert-info">Unscoped keys do not include the <code>workflows_run</code> scope by default. Ensure that you're following security best practice and use an application key with the minimum scopes needed to perform the desired task.</div>

You can trigger a workflow by sending a POST request with the workflow ID to the endpoint `https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/workflows/WORKFLOW-ID/instances`. When you add an API trigger to a workflow, the trigger interface gives you an example cURL request that you can use to trigger the workflow.

To add an API trigger to a workflow:
1. Click **Add Trigger** > **API** to add an API trigger to your workflow.
1. On the workflow canvas, click **API** and note the example workflow cURL request, which includes the required headers and data to trigger your workflow.

   An cURL request to trigger a workflow looks something like this:
   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
curl -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "DD-API-KEY: ${DD_API_KEY}" \
  -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${DD_APP_KEY}" \
  -d {} \
  https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/workflows/32866005-d275-4553-be86-9f1b13066d84/instances
{{< /code-block >}}

   If the workflow includes input parameters, include them in the request payload. The following example uses two input parameters, `example_input1` and `example_input2`:

   {{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
curl -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "DD-API-KEY: ${DD_API_KEY}" \
  -H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${DD_APP_KEY}" \
  -d { "meta": { "payload": { \
    "example_input1": "...", \
    "example_input2": "..." \
  } } } \
  https://api.datadoghq.com/api/v2/workflows/32866005-d275-4553-be86-9f1b13066d84/instances
   {{< /code-block >}}
1. Click **Save**.
1. Click **Publish** to publish the workflow. A workflow must be published before you can trigger it with a POST request. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

## Trigger a workflow on a schedule

To schedule a workflow run:
1. On the workflow canvas, click **Add an Automated Trigger** and select **Schedule**.
1. Click **Create** to create a service account. For more information, see [Use a service account][1].
1. Enter a time and frequency for the run.
1. (Optional) Enter a description for the workflow in the **Memo** field.
1. Click **Save**.

Scheduled and triggered workflows don't run automatically until you've published them. To publish the workflow, click **Publish** from the workflow's page. Published workflows accrue costs based on workflow executions. For more information, see the [Datadog Pricing page][11].

## Run history

After you trigger a workflow, the workflow page switches to the workflow's **Run History**. Click **Configuration** or **Run History** in the top-left to switch between the configuration and run history views.

Use run history to watch the progress of a triggered workflow, or debug a failed step. Clicking on a failed step gives you the inputs, outputs, and execution context for the step, as well as the associated error message. The example below shows a failed _GitHub pull request status_ step. The error message shows that the step failed due to missing permissions:

{{< img src="service_management/workflows/failed-step4.png" alt="A workflow with a failed step." >}}

The initial run history for a workflow provides a panel with the list of previous workflow executions and whether each execution succeeded or failed. Failures include a link to the failed workflow step. Click on a workflow execution in the list to inspect it. You can return to the initial execution history at any time by clicking anywhere on the workflow canvas.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

<br>Do you have questions or feedback? Join the **#workflows** channel on the [Datadog Community Slack][7].

[1]: /service_management/workflows/access/#use-a-service-account
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/monitors/manage
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/configuration/notification-rules
[4]: /security/cloud_security_management/workflows
[5]: /service_management/workflows/build/#input-parameters
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/incidents/settings#Rules
[7]: https://datadoghq.slack.com/
[8]: /account_management/api-app-keys/#api-keys
[9]: /account_management/api-app-keys/#application-keys
[10]: /account_management/api-app-keys/#scopes
[11]: https://www.datadoghq.com/pricing/?product=workflow-automation#products
