content/en/synthetics/_index.md, before:

---
title: Synthetic Monitoring
kind: documentation
description: "Use automated testing to ensure the most critical parts of your systems and applications are up and running from various locations around the world."
disable_sidebar: true
aliases:
  - /integrations/synthetics/
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-synthetic-monitoring/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Introduction to Datadog Synthetic Monitoring"
- link: 'https://learn.datadoghq.com/course/view.php?id=39'
  tag: 'Learning Center'
  text: 'Introduction to Synthetic Tests'
- link: "/synthetics/guide/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Synthetic Monitoring Guides"

---

{{< vimeo 447241955 >}}

<br/>

Synthetic tests allow you to observe how your systems and applications are performing using **simulated requests and actions from around the globe**. Datadog **tracks the performance of your webpages and APIs** from the backend to the frontend, and at various network levels (`HTTP`, `TCP`, `SSL`, `DNS`, and `ICMP`) in a controlled and stable way, alerting you in case of faulty behavior (regression, broken feature, high response time, unexpected status code, etc.). **End-to-end testing production and CI environments** increases development teams’ speed as it puts an end to the fear of defective code making it to production. **Computing SLOs** on your key endpoints and user journeys makes it easier to stick to your application performance targets and ultimately provide a consistent customer experience.

## Getting started
Create your first Synthetic test and start monitoring web applications to improve their performance in just a few minutes.

### Set up API tests and multistep API tests

API tests allow you to launch [single][1] or [chained][2] requests to perform verifications on your key systems at various network levels: `HTTP`, `TCP`, `SSL`, `DNS`, and `ICMP`. Create your first [HTTP test][3], [TCP test][4], [SSL test][5], [DNS test][6], or [ICMP test][7] to get started with API and network monitoring.

{{< img src="synthetics/api_test.png" alt="API tests"  style="width:100%;">}}

### Record browser tests

Record end-to-end tests to monitor how your customers experience your webpages from around the world using [Synthetic browser tests][8].

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_test.gif" alt="Browser tests"  style="width:100%;">}}

### Launch private locations

Use [Synthetic private locations][9] to monitor internal APIs and websites or to create custom locations in areas that are mission-critical to your business.

{{< img src="synthetics/private_locations.png" alt="Private locations"  style="width:100%;">}}

### Run tests with your integration and deployment processes

Leverage your Synthetic tests as [canaries][10] or run them directly within your [CI pipelines][10] to start shipping without fearing faulty code might impact your customers experience.

 {{< img src="synthetics/ci.png" alt="CI tests"  style="width:100%;">}}

### Connect data and traces

Use the [out of the box integration between Synthetic tests and APM traces][11] to find the root cause of failures across frontend, network and backend requests.

{{< img src="synthetics/synthetics_traces.gif" alt="Synthetic Monitoring" style="width:100%;">}}

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /synthetics/api_tests/
[2]: /synthetics/multistep
[3]: /getting_started/synthetics/api_test
[4]: /synthetics/api_tests/?tab=tcptest
[5]: /synthetics/api_tests/?tab=ssltest
[6]: /synthetics/api_tests/?tab=dnstest
[7]: /synthetics/api_tests/?tab=icmp_test
[8]: /getting_started/synthetics/browser_test
[9]: /getting_started/synthetics/private_location
[10]: /synthetics/ci/
[11]: /synthetics/apm/

Commit message:

DOCS-2149
Adjusted header sizing, added Ready to start? section, and fixed link URLs.

content/en/synthetics/_index.md, after:

---
title: Synthetic Monitoring
kind: documentation
description: "Use automated testing to ensure the most critical parts of your systems and applications are up and running from various locations around the world."
disable_sidebar: true
aliases:
  - /integrations/synthetics/
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-synthetic-monitoring/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Introduction to Datadog Synthetic Monitoring"
- link: 'https://learn.datadoghq.com/course/view.php?id=39'
  tag: 'Learning Center'
  text: 'Introduction to Synthetic Tests'
- link: "/synthetics/guide/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Synthetic Monitoring Guides"

---

{{< vimeo 447241955 >}}

<br/>

Synthetic tests allow you to observe how your systems and applications are performing using **simulated requests and actions from around the globe**. Datadog tracks the performance of your webpages and APIs from the backend to the frontend, and at various network levels (`HTTP`, `TCP`, `SSL`, `DNS`, and `ICMP`) in a controlled and stable way, alerting you in case of faulty behavior (regression, broken feature, high response time, unexpected status code, etc.). 

With **end-to-end testing in production and CI environments**, your development teams can proactively ensure that no defective code makes it to production. **Computing SLOs** on your key endpoints and user journeys makes it easier to stick to your application performance targets and ultimately provide a consistent customer experience.

## Set up API tests and multistep API tests

API tests allow you to launch [single][1] or [chained][2] requests to perform verifications on your key systems at various network levels: `HTTP`, `TCP`, `SSL`, `DNS`, and `ICMP`. 

{{< img src="synthetics/api_test.png" alt="API tests"  style="width:100%;">}}

## Record browser tests

Use [Synthetic browser tests][3] to record end-to-end tests and monitor how your customers experience your webpages from around the world.

{{< img src="synthetics/browser_test.gif" alt="Browser tests"  style="width:100%;">}}

## Launch private locations

Use [Synthetic private locations][4] to monitor internal APIs and websites or create custom locations in areas that are mission-critical to your business.

{{< img src="synthetics/private_locations.png" alt="Private locations"  style="width:100%;">}}

## Run tests with your integration and deployment processes

Leverage your Synthetic tests as [canaries][5] or run them directly within your [CI pipelines][5] to start shipping without fear that faulty code may impact your customers' experience.

 {{< img src="synthetics/ci.png" alt="CI tests"  style="width:100%;">}}

## Connect data and traces

Use the [out of the box integration between Synthetic tests and APM traces][6] to find the root cause of failures across frontend, network, and backend requests.

{{< img src="synthetics/synthetics_traces.gif" alt="Synthetic Monitoring" style="width:100%;">}}

## Ready to start?

See [Getting Started with Synthetic Monitoring][7] for instructions on creating your first Synthetic test and monitoring your web applications. Then, start exploring API tests with [HTTP test][8], [SSL test][9], [TCP test][10], [DNS test][11], or [ICMP test][12].

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /synthetics/api_tests/
[2]: /synthetics/multistep
[3]: /synthetics/browser_tests
[4]: /synthetics/private_locations
[5]: /synthetics/ci/
[6]: /synthetics/apm/
[7]: /getting_started/synthetics
[8]: /synthetics/api_test/http_tests
[9]: /synthetics/api_tests/tcp_tests
[10]: /synthetics/api_tests/ssl_tests
[11]: /synthetics/api_tests/dns_tests
[12]: /synthetics/api_tests/icmp_tests
