---
title: Identify Synthetics Bots
kind: documentation
beta: true
description: Identify incoming Synthetics requests
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-synthetic-monitoring/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Introducing Datadog Synthetics"
- link: "synthetics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Manage your checks"
- link: "synthetics/browser_test"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
- link: "synthetics/api_test"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure an API Test"

---

## Overview

Some parts of your system might not be available to robots without the right identification, or you might want to avoid collecting analytics from Datadog robots.

## Solutions

Choose any or a variety of the following methods to identify the robots to make sure they are performing the actions you expect.

1. You can use the headers added to Synthetics tests. The `x-abuse-info: Request sent by a Datadog Synthetics API Check (https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/) - check_id: your_check_id` header for instance is automatically added to all the requests generated by our API tests.
If APM is enabled, [**other APM specific headers**][1] such as `x-datadog-trace-id` are added to all the requests launched for API tests.
No headers are added by default for browser tests.
Using one of these headers allows you to filter these bot requests once in your analytics tool.

If you want these requests to be completely removed, and not sent at all to your analytics tool, you can use the below JavaScript variable on your website, wrapped around your analytics tool code snippet:

```
if (window._DATADOG_SYNTHETICS_BROWSER === undefined) {
  initializeAnalytics()
}
```

2. You can use the **Advanced options** to set custom headers for your API and Browser tests.

3. You can locally add **cookies, headers or basic auth** to your API tests and **cookies and headers** to your Browser tests.

4. You can use Datadog's [**IP ranges**][2], provided in the section "synthetics".

[1]: /synthetics/apm/#how-are-traces-linked-to-checks
[2]: https://ip-ranges.datadoghq.com
