content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/_index.md, before:

---
title: Datadog Plugin for JetBrains IDEs
disable_toc: false
is_beta: true
aliases:
- '/developers/ide_integrations/idea/'
further_reading:
- link: "/getting_started/profiler/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Getting started with Continuous Profiler."
- link: "/integrations/guide/source-code-integration/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Source Code Integration."
- link: "/static_analysis/?tab=githubactions"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Static Analysis."
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-ide-plugins/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Reduce context switching while troubleshooting with Datadog's IDE plugins"
---

{{% site-region region="gov" %}}
<div class="alert alert-danger">
    The Datadog extension for JetBrains IDEs is not supported for your selected <a href="/getting_started/site">Datadog site</a> ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}).
</div>
{{% /site-region %}}

## Overview

The Datadog plugin for JetBrains IDEs helps improve software performance by providing code insights in the IDE based on real-time observability data. The plugin is for developers that use Datadog products including [Log Explorer][5], [Error Tracking][6], [Live Debugger][21], [Continuous Profiler][10], [Code Security][7], [Test Optimization][18] and [CI Visibility][19] to monitor their services. It is available for IntelliJ IDEA, GoLand, PyCharm, WebStorm, and PhpStorm.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/overview1.png" alt="The Datadog tool window open in IDEA" style="width:100%;" >}}

The **Logs** integration shows observed logs in the source code editor, and provides links to the [Log Explorer][5] to view logs generated by a specific line of code.

The **Code Insights** feature helps you find and fix runtime errors from [Error Tracking][6], library and runtime code vulnerabilities from [Code Security][7], flaky tests detected by [Test Optimization][18], and more.

The [**Live Debugger**][20] enables you to capture vital debugging information by adding temporary logs to your runtime code and without having to stop and restart your service or application.

The [**Continuous Profiler**][22] helps you to reduce latency and lower cloud costs by highlighting code that uses the most CPU time, allocates the most memory, triggers the most exceptions, or consumes high amounts of other resources.

The **CI Test Runs** feature opens the [CI Visibility Explorer][9] to show recent runs for any test.

The **Static Analysis** engine, running locally, analyzes your code against predefined rules to detect and fix problems before you commit changes.

## Requirements

- **A Datadog account**: The plugin requires a Datadog account (except when using [Static Analysis][13] features). If you're new to Datadog, go to the [Datadog website][3] to learn more about Datadog's observability tools and sign up for a free trial.
- **Continuous Profiler**: To display profiling data and insights, the plugin requires the Continuous Profiler to be configured for your Services. For more information, see [Getting Started with the Continuous Profiler][2].

## Setup

### Install the Datadog plugin

1. Click **Plugins** and search for `Datadog`.
1. Click **Install** to download and install the plugin in your IDE.
1. If you receive a prompt notifying you that Datadog is a third-party plugin, click **Accept**.
1. Click **Restart IDE**.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/install-plugin.png" alt="The Datadog plugin" style="width:100%;" >}}

Alternatively, you can install the plugin from the [JetBrains Marketplace][4].

<span id="datadog_plugin_install_button"></span>

### Log in to Datadog

After installing the Datadog plugin and restarting the IDE, log in to Datadog:
1. With a file or project open in the IDE, click the **Datadog** tool window.
1. Click **Log in...**.
1. In the browser window that opens, select your site and organization, then authorize access to the platform.

**Note**: For most users, one login is all that is required. If you're using a multi-org setup, check to ensure that the correct account is active. To find out which login your IDE is using, click **Settings** -> **Tools** -> **Datadog**, and check which account is active.

### Link a service

To provide relevant data from the Datadog platform, add related services to your project:
1. With your project open in the IDE, open the **Datadog** tool window and select **Manage Linked Services...** from the **Options** menu.
1. A settings dialog opens, click the plus icon (**+**).
1. Search for and select the services that you want to add to the current project.

To remove a service, select it in the **Services** table and click the minus icon (**-**).

<div class="alert alert-info">The names of linked services persist with the project when you close it.</div>

## Logs insights

Log patterns from Datadog are matched directly to lines of code in your editor for your Java, JavaScript, TypeScript, Go, and Python source files:
{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/log-patterns.png" alt="A log line showing log events from Datadog" style="width:100%;" >}}

A popup shows runtime values from the log entries:
{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/log-patterns-popup.png" alt="A popup showing log patterns from Datadog" style="width:100%;" >}}

Click the log icon to open the [Log Explorer][5] in Datadog with a pre-filled query that matches the logger name, log level, and log message as closely as possible:
{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/log-explorer-link.png" alt="A source file showing a View Logs icon and link." style="width:100%;" >}}

## Code Insights
The **Code Insights** tab displays insights generated by the Datadog platform that are relevant to your current project. The insights are grouped into three categories: performance, reliability, and security.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/code-insights-2.png" alt="The Code Insights tab." style="width:100%;" >}}

Code Insights include a detailed description for each issue, and links to:
- The related source code location
- The Datadog platform for additional information

You can dismiss individual insights and set filters to view the categories of insights that you are interested in.

## Live Debugger

The [**Live Debugger**][20] enables you to add logpoints—auto-expiring, non-breaking breakpoints—to your runtime code to collect information for debugging.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/live_debugger/tool-window-tab.png" alt="The Live Debugger tab" style="width:100%;" >}}

Find out more in the [Live Debugger documentation][20].

## Continuous Profiler

The [**Continuous Profiler**][22] highlights resource consumption (such as CPU, memory allocation, and thrown exceptions) using profiling data collected from deployed services.  This information helps developers write more efficient code and eliminate bottlenecks.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/continuous_profiler/flamegraph.png" alt="A flame graph showing CPU Time over the past hour" style="width:100%;" >}}

Find out more in the [Continuous Profiler documentation][22].

## CI Test Runs
You can view recent test runs in the [CI Visibility Explorer][12] by navigating directly from your source files. Look for the **CI Test Run** inlays above test method declarations in your source code:

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/ci-navigation.png" alt="A source file showing a CI Test Run inlay." style="width:100%;" >}}

Clicking the link opens the **Test Runs** tab showing the recent history for one test case.

## View in IDE

The **View in IDE** feature provides a link from the Datadog platform directly to the source files in your IDE. Look for the button next to frames in stack traces displayed on the platform (for example, in [Error Tracking][6]):

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/view-in-idea.png" alt="A stack trace on the Datadog platform showing the View in IntelliJ button." style="width:100%;" >}}

<div class="alert alert-info">A prerequisite to make the most of this feature is that Source Code Integration is configured for your service.</div>

## Static Analysis
The Datadog plugin runs [Static Analysis][13] rules on your source files as you edit them. The goal is to detect and fix problems such as maintainability issues, bugs, or security vulnerabilities in your code before you commit your changes. 

Static Analysis supports scanning for many programming languages. For a complete list, see [Static Analysis Rules][14]. For file types belonging to supported languages, issues are shown in the source code editor with the JetBrains inspection system, and suggested fixes can be applied directly:

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/static-analysis-issue.png" alt="A static analysis rule violation and recommended fix." style="width:100%;" >}}

Additionally, all issues detected by this feature are listed in the standard **Problems** view.

### Getting started
When you start editing a source file supported by Static Analysis, the plugin checks for `static-analysis.datadog.yml` at your source repository's root. It prompts you to create the file if necessary:

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/static-analysis-onboard.png" alt="A banner for onboarding." style="width:100%;" >}}

Once the configuration file is created, the static analyzer runs automatically in the background.

<div class="alert alert-info">The Static Analysis feature does not require a Datadog account as source files are analyzed locally.</div>

## Feedback

You can give feedback in the [discussion forum][1], or send an e-mail to [team-ide-integration@datadoghq.com][11].

## Data and Telemetry
Datadog collects information about your usage of this IDE, including how you interact with it, whether errors occurred while using it, and what caused those errors, in accordance with the [Datadog Privacy Policy][16] and [Datadog's EULA][17].

If you don't wish to send this data to Datadog, you can disable the collection at any time in the settings: `Settings > Tools > Datadog > Data Sharing` and disable the `Send usage statistics` option.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

<script src="https://plugins.jetbrains.com/assets/scripts/mp-widget.js"></script>
<script>
  // Please, replace #yourelement with a real element id on your webpage
  MarketplaceWidget.setupMarketplaceWidget('install', 19495, "#datadog_plugin_install_button");
</script>

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-for-intellij/discussions
[2]: /getting_started/profiler/
[3]: https://www.datadoghq.com/
[4]: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19495-datadog
[5]: /logs/explorer/
[6]: /tracing/error_tracking/
[7]: /security/code_security/
[8]: /security/code_security/software_composition_analysis/
[9]: /continuous_integration/explorer/
[10]: /profiler/
[11]: mailto:team-ide-integration@datadoghq.com
[12]: /continuous_integration/explorer/?tab=testruns
[13]: /static_analysis/?tab=githubactions
[14]: /static_analysis/rules/#python-rules
[15]: /logs/explorer/analytics/patterns/
[16]: https://www.datadoghq.com/legal/privacy/
[17]: https://www.datadoghq.com/legal/eula/
[18]: /tests/
[19]: /continuous_integration/
[20]: /developers/ide_plugins/idea/live_debugger/
[21]: /tracing/live_debugger/
[22]: /developers/ide_plugins/idea/continuous_profiler/

Commit message:

Update for Logs feature (#32767)
* Update for Logs feature

* Delete unused images

* Update main image

* Remove spacing

* Small fixes

* Update links

* Resize image

* Add missing image

* Minor edits

* More edits

* Minor edit

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/_index.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* Update content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs.md

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

* PR feedback

* Remove sidebar from browser image

---------

Co-authored-by: Joe Peeples <joe.peeples@datadoghq.com>

content/en/developers/ide_plugins/idea/_index.md, after:

---
title: Datadog Plugin for JetBrains IDEs
disable_toc: false
is_beta: true
aliases:
- '/developers/ide_integrations/idea/'
further_reading:
- link: "/tracing/live_debugger/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Live Debugger"
- link: "/logs/explorer/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Logs"
- link: "/integrations/guide/source-code-integration/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Source Code Integration."
- link: "/static_analysis/?tab=githubactions"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Static Analysis."
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-ide-plugins/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Reduce context switching while troubleshooting with Datadog's IDE plugins"
---

{{% site-region region="gov" %}}
<div class="alert alert-danger">
    The Datadog extension for JetBrains IDEs is not supported for your selected <a href="/getting_started/site">Datadog site</a> ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}).
</div>
{{% /site-region %}}

## Overview

The Datadog plugin for JetBrains IDEs helps improve software performance by providing code insights in the IDE based on real-time observability data. The plugin is for developers that use Datadog products including [Error Tracking][6], [Live Debugger][21], [Logs][23], [Continuous Profiler][10], [Code Security][7], [Test Optimization][18] and [CI Visibility][19] to monitor their services. It is available for IntelliJ IDEA, GoLand, PyCharm, WebStorm, and PhpStorm.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/overview1.png" alt="The Datadog tool window open in IDEA" style="width:100%;" >}}

The **Code Insights** feature helps you find and fix runtime errors from [Error Tracking][6], library and runtime code vulnerabilities from [Code Security][7], flaky tests detected by [Test Optimization][18], and more.

The [**Live Debugger**][20] enables you to capture vital debugging information by adding temporary logs to your runtime code and without having to stop and restart your service or application.

The [**Logs**][23] integration shows observed logs in the source code editor and provides links to the [Log Explorer][5] to view logs generated by a specific line of code.

The [**Continuous Profiler**][22] helps you to reduce latency and lower cloud costs by highlighting code that uses the most CPU time, allocates the most memory, triggers the most exceptions, or consumes high amounts of other resources.

The **CI Test Runs** feature opens the [CI Visibility Explorer][9] to show recent runs for any test.

The **Static Analysis** engine, running locally, analyzes your code against predefined rules to detect and fix problems before you commit changes.

## Requirements

- **A Datadog account**: The plugin requires a Datadog account (except when using [Static Analysis][13] features). If you're new to Datadog, go to the [Datadog website][3] to learn more about Datadog's observability tools and sign up for a free trial.
- **Continuous Profiler**: To display profiling data and insights, the plugin requires the Continuous Profiler to be configured for your Services. For more information, see [Getting Started with the Continuous Profiler][2].

## Setup

### Install the Datadog plugin

1. Click **Plugins** and search for `Datadog`.
1. Click **Install** to download and install the plugin in your IDE.
1. If you receive a prompt notifying you that Datadog is a third-party plugin, click **Accept**.
1. Click **Restart IDE**.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/install-plugin.png" alt="The Datadog plugin" style="width:100%;" >}}

Alternatively, you can install the plugin from the [JetBrains Marketplace][4].

<span id="datadog_plugin_install_button"></span>

### Log in to Datadog

After installing the Datadog plugin and restarting the IDE, log in to Datadog:
1. With a file or project open in the IDE, click the **Datadog** tool window.
1. Click **Log in...**.
1. In the browser window that opens, select your site and organization, then authorize access to the platform.

**Note**: For most users, one login is all that is required. If you're using a multi-org setup, check to ensure that the correct account is active. To find out which login your IDE is using, click **Settings** -> **Tools** -> **Datadog**, and check which account is active.

### Link a service

To provide relevant data from the Datadog platform, add related services to your project:
1. With your project open in the IDE, open the **Datadog** tool window and select **Manage Linked Services...** from the **Options** menu.
1. A settings dialog opens, click the plus icon (**+**).
1. Search for and select the services that you want to add to the current project.

To remove a service, select it in the **Services** table and click the minus icon (**-**).

<div class="alert alert-info">The names of linked services persist with the project when you close it.</div>

## Code Insights
The **Code Insights** tab displays insights generated by the Datadog platform that are relevant to your current project. The insights are grouped into three categories: performance, reliability, and security.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/code-insights-2.png" alt="The Code Insights tab." style="width:100%;" >}}

Code Insights include a detailed description for each issue, and links to:
- The related source code location
- The Datadog platform for additional information

You can dismiss individual insights and set filters to view the categories of insights that you are interested in.

## Live Debugger

The [**Live Debugger**][20] enables you to add logpoints—auto-expiring, non-breaking breakpoints—to your runtime code to collect information for debugging.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/live_debugger/tool-window-tab.png" alt="The Live Debugger tab" style="width:100%;" >}}

Find out more in the [Live Debugger][20] subsection.

## Logs

The [Logs][23] integration detects log lines in your source code, displays live event counts directly in the source editor, and provides links to the Datadog Log Explorer to view the logs generated by each log line. 

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs/logs.png" alt="Log events from Datadog" style="width:100%;" >}}

Find out more in the [Logs][23] sub-section.

## Continuous Profiler

The [**Continuous Profiler**][22] highlights resource consumption (such as CPU, memory allocation, and thrown exceptions) using profiling data collected from deployed services.  This information helps developers write more efficient code and eliminate bottlenecks.

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/continuous_profiler/flamegraph.png" alt="A flame graph showing CPU Time over the past hour" style="width:100%;" >}}

Find out more in the [Continuous Profiler][22] sub-section.

## CI Test Runs
You can view recent test runs in the [CI Visibility Explorer][12] by navigating directly from your source files. Look for the **CI Test Run** inlays above test method declarations in your source code:

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/ci-navigation.png" alt="A source file showing a CI Test Run inlay." style="width:100%;" >}}

Clicking the link opens the **Test Runs** tab showing the recent history for one test case.

## View in IDE

The **View in IDE** feature provides a link from the Datadog platform directly to the source files in your IDE. Look for the button next to frames in stack traces displayed on the platform (for example, in [Error Tracking][6]):

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/view-in-idea.png" alt="A stack trace on the Datadog platform showing the View in IntelliJ button." style="width:100%;" >}}

<div class="alert alert-info">A prerequisite to make the most of this feature is that Source Code Integration is configured for your service.</div>

## Static Analysis
The Datadog plugin runs [Static Analysis][13] rules on your source files as you edit them. The goal is to detect and fix problems such as maintainability issues, bugs, or security vulnerabilities in your code before you commit your changes. 

Static Analysis supports scanning for many programming languages. For a complete list, see [Static Analysis Rules][14]. For file types belonging to supported languages, issues are shown in the source code editor with the JetBrains inspection system, and suggested fixes can be applied directly:

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/static-analysis-issue.png" alt="A static analysis rule violation and recommended fix." style="width:100%;" >}}

Additionally, all issues detected by this feature are listed in the standard **Problems** view.

### Getting started
When you start editing a source file supported by Static Analysis, the plugin checks for `static-analysis.datadog.yml` at your source repository's root. It prompts you to create the file if necessary:

{{< img src="/developers/ide_plugins/idea/static-analysis-onboard.png" alt="A banner for onboarding." style="width:100%;" >}}

Once the configuration file is created, the static analyzer runs automatically in the background.

<div class="alert alert-info">The Static Analysis feature does not require a Datadog account as source files are analyzed locally.</div>

## Feedback

You can give feedback in the [discussion forum][1], or send an e-mail to [team-ide-integration@datadoghq.com][11].

## Data and Telemetry
Datadog collects information about your usage of this IDE, including how you interact with it, whether errors occurred while using it, and what caused those errors, in accordance with the [Datadog Privacy Policy][16] and [Datadog's EULA][17].

If you don't wish to send this data to Datadog, you can disable the collection at any time in the settings: `Settings > Tools > Datadog > Data Sharing` and disable the `Send usage statistics` option.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

<script src="https://plugins.jetbrains.com/assets/scripts/mp-widget.js"></script>
<script>
  // Please, replace #yourelement with a real element id on your webpage
  MarketplaceWidget.setupMarketplaceWidget('install', 19495, "#datadog_plugin_install_button");
</script>

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-for-intellij/discussions
[2]: /getting_started/profiler/
[3]: https://www.datadoghq.com/
[4]: https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/19495-datadog
[5]: /logs/explorer/
[6]: /tracing/error_tracking/
[7]: /security/code_security/
[8]: /security/code_security/software_composition_analysis/
[9]: /continuous_integration/explorer/
[10]: /profiler/
[11]: mailto:team-ide-integration@datadoghq.com
[12]: /continuous_integration/explorer/?tab=testruns
[13]: /static_analysis/?tab=githubactions
[14]: /static_analysis/rules/#python-rules
[15]: /logs/explorer/analytics/patterns/
[16]: https://www.datadoghq.com/legal/privacy/
[17]: https://www.datadoghq.com/legal/eula/
[18]: /tests/
[19]: /continuous_integration/
[20]: /developers/ide_plugins/idea/live_debugger/
[21]: /tracing/live_debugger/
[22]: /developers/ide_plugins/idea/continuous_profiler/
[23]: /developers/ide_plugins/idea/logs/
