---
title: Internal Logs
---
The internal logs source exposes all log and trace messages emitted by the running Vector instance.

# Configuration
<table><thead><tr><td>Param</td><td>Description</td></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>host_key</td><td>Overrides the name of the log field used to add the current hostname to each event.

By default, the [global `log_schema.host_key` option][global_host_key] is used.

Set to `""` to suppress this key.

[global_host_key]: https://vector.dev/docs/reference/configuration/global-options/#log_schema.host_key</td></tr><tr><td>pid_key</td><td>Overrides the name of the log field used to add the current process ID to each event.

By default, `"pid"` is used.

Set to `""` to suppress this key.</td></tr><tr><td>type</td><td>The component type. This is a required field for all components and tells Vector which component to use.</td></tr></tbody></table>

# Output Data

# Telemetry
<table></tbody><tr><td>component_discarded_events_total</td><td>The number of events dropped by this component.</td></tr><tr><td>component_errors_total</td><td>The total number of errors encountered by this component.</td></tr><tr><td>component_received_events_total</td><td>The number of events accepted by this component either from tagged
origins like file and uri, or cumulatively from other origins.</td></tr><tr><td>events_out_total</td><td>The total number of events emitted by this component.
This metric is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
Use [`component_sent_events_total`](/docs/reference/configuration/sources/internal_metrics/#component_sent_events_total) instead.</td></tr><tr><td>component_sent_events_total</td><td>The total number of events emitted by this component.</td></tr><tr><td>component_sent_event_bytes_total</td><td>The total number of event bytes emitted by this component.</td></tr><tr><td>component_received_event_bytes_total</td><td>The number of event bytes accepted by this component either from
tagged origins like file and uri, or cumulatively from other origins.</td></tr><tr><td>source_lag_time_seconds</td><td>The difference between the timestamp recorded in each event and the time when it was ingested, expressed as fractional seconds.</td></tr></tbody></table>

# How It Works
## Logs are limited by startup options
At startup, the selection of log messages generated by Vector is determined by a
combination of the `VECTOR_LOG` environment variable and the `--quiet` and `--verbose`
command-line options. The `internal_logs` source only receives logs that are generated by these options.

## State
This component is stateless, meaning its behavior is consistent across each input.

## Context
By default, the `internal_logs` source augments events with helpful
context keys.


