content/en/monitors/notify/notification_rules.md, before:

---
title: Notification Rules
description: "Automate monitor alert routing using predefined notification rules based on tags and conditions to streamline team notifications."
further_reading:
- link: "/monitors/notify/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure monitor notifications"
- link: "/monitors/settings/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Monitor Settings"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-notification-rules/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Route your monitor alerts with Datadog monitor notification rules"
---

## Overview

Monitor notification rules are predefined sets of conditions that automate the process of alerting your team based on tags and rule logic. Instead of individually configuring recipients for every monitor, notification rules let you define once and automatically route all monitor notifications whose notification tagset matches the rule's scope.

<div class="alert alert-info">There is a default limit of 1000 rules per organization.</a>.</div>

## Setup

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/notification_rule_form-light.png" alt="Configuration for a notification rule showing scopes, routing conditions, recipients, and matching monitors" style="width:100%;" >}}

<div class="alert alert-danger">You must have the <a href="/account_management/rbac/permissions/#monitors"><code>monitor_config_policy_write</code> permission</a> to create a rule.</div>

To create a Monitor Notification Rule in Datadog, do the following:

1. Go to [**Notification Rules**][1].
2. Click **New Rule**.
3. [Configure the scope](#configure-the-scope): Define the required tags for a monitor notification to be routed to this rule.
4. [Configure the recipients](#configure-the-recipients): Specify who to alert and under what conditions.
5. Add a clear and identifiable rule name.

### Configure the scope

Add the required tags for a monitor notification to be routed to this rule. Matching evaluates the notification tagset. Learn more in [How matching works](#how-matching-works).

<div class="alert alert-info">Monitors created or updated after the notification rule is saved are routed to the defined recipients if it matches the scope of the rule.</div>

{{% collapse-content title="Rule scope syntax" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

The Notification Rule scope query supports Boolean logic and follows the [event-based search syntax][3] supported by many other platform products.

| Syntax Element | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| **Boolean operators** | Supported: `AND`, `OR`, `NOT`<br>Implicit operator: `AND` |
| **Wildcards** | Only `key:*` is supported (for example, `env:*`). Partial wildcards like `env:prod-*` are not supported. `key:*` matches if the key exists anywhere in the notification tagset. |
| **Multiple values for the same key** | Use either `env:(prod OR staging)` or `env:prod OR env:staging`. |
| **Quoting** | Wrap values that contain spaces or special characters in quotes, for example: `team:"data platform"`. |
{{% /collapse-content %}}


{{% collapse-content title="Scope examples" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

| Notification Rule scope | Explanation |
| ------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `service:web-store`       | Route any notification about the `web-store` service. |
| `service:web-store AND env:prod`       | Route any notification about the `web-store` service running on the `prod` environment. |
| `service:webstore AND  NOT env:staging`       | Route any notification about the `web-store` service that is **not** running on the `staging` environment. |
| `env:*`       | Route any notification that carry the `env:<value>` tag (either from monitor tags or group). |

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title="Rule scope limitations" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

The following are **not supported**:

* Keyless tags, such as `prod AND service:(A or B)` or `prod`, aren't supported. Tags need to have a key, in this case for example `env:prod`.
* Partial wildcards (`service:web-*`) and question mark wildcards `service:auth?` are not supported. Wildcard is allowed only if used alone like `service:*`.
* Scope length up to 3000 characters.
{{% /collapse-content %}}


### Configure the recipients

Specify which recipients to notify when a monitor notification matches the rule's scope. You can always notify all recipients, or set conditional recipients that are only notified when certain conditions are met (for example, route critical alerts to your on-call recipient, and send warnings to a Slack channel).

Notifications can be sent to email or any integration channel. There is a limit of 50 notification recipients per rule. For more information, see [Notifications][2].

## Managing notification rules

### From Monitor Settings

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/notification_rules_table.png" alt="List of notification rules in Monitor Settings" style="width:100%;" >}}

The [Monitor Notification Rules][1] page displays a table of all your notification rules with the following columns:

- **Name**: Notification rule name
- **Scope**: Shows the tag combinations that define when this rule applies (for example, `team:shopist service:web-store env:prod`).
- **Team**: Lists the teams that this notification rule is associated with (available only when the team tag is added in the scope)
- **Coverage**: Shows the number of monitors that match this rule's scopes. Use this to verify rule coverage and identify rules that need adjustment.
- **Notifies**: Lists the notification channels (such as Slack or email) that will receive alerts when this rule matches.

Additionally, you can click the vertical three-dot menu on the notification rule to **Edit** or **Delete**.

### From an individual monitor
In your monitor configuration, the **Recipient Summary** shows recipients that are applied to the monitor by matching notification rules. On the **Monitor** edit page, you may also see rules that _could_ match when new groups report (multi alert monitors). The **Monitor** status page shows rules that match.

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/monitor_matching_notification_rule.png" alt="Recipient summary field showing the notification recipients applied by notification rules" style="width:100%;" >}}

## How matching works

- Notification tagset is the union of monitor tags and tags of the firing group (for multi alert monitors). If a key has multiple values across monitor/group, all values are considered.
- Currently matches: A rule matches if at least one reporting group, combined with monitor tags, satisfies the scope; or, if the monitor tags alone do. NOT is evaluated per candidate tagset, so a group with a denied value does not match.
- Could match when new groups report (multi alert monitors, Monitor edit surface): Treat each group-by key as present with any value, constrained by the monitor query's allow/deny filters.
- If multiple rules match a single notification, recipients from all matching rules are merged and de-duplicated.

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/diagram_notification-rules.png" alt="Flowchart showing how Monitor notification rules match tags, combine recipients from monitors and rules, and remove duplicates before sending alerts" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{% collapse-content title="Example: Notification Rule Matching" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

The following table demonstrates how monitors with different tag combinations match notification rules and their resulting notifications. This table shows how:
1. Multiple notification rules can match a single monitor notification based on its tags.
2. The AND logic works for multiple tags within a rule.
3. All matching notification rules contribute their recipients to the final notification list.
4. Recipients are deduplicated in the final notification list.

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th></th>
            <th colspan="5" style="text-align: center; border-bottom: 1px solid #ddd; background-color:rgb(98, 92, 92);">Notification Rules</th>
            <th></th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8;"></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>team:shopist,<br>service:web-store</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>team:shopist</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>service:web-store</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>service:web-store<br>env:prod</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>service:web-store<br>env:dev</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8;"></th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8;"><strong>MONITOR ALERT TAGS AND NOTIFICATIONS</strong></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@slack-channel1</i><br><i>@jira-project</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@jira-project</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@jira-project</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@jira-project</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8;"><strong>NOTIFIED HANDLES</strong></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>team:shopist, service:web-store</code><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@slack-channel1</i><br><i>@jira-project</i><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>team:shopist</code></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@jira-project</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>service:web-store</code></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@jira-project</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>service:web-store, env:prod</code></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@jira-project</i><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>service:web-store, env:dev</code></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td><i>@jira-project</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>team:shopist and service:web-store, env:prod</code><br><i>@slack-service1</i><br><i>@jira-project</i><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@slack-channel1</i><br><i>@slack-service1</i><br><i>@jira-project</i><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

{{% /collapse-content %}}

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/monitors/settings/notifications
[2]: /monitors/notify/#notifications
[3]: /getting_started/search/#event-based-queries

Commit message:

Document supported conditions for Monitor Notification Rules (#33975)
* Document supported condtions

* Code review

Co-authored-by: domalessi <111786334+domalessi@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: domalessi <111786334+domalessi@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/monitors/notify/notification_rules.md, after:

---
title: Notification Rules
description: "Automate monitor alert routing using predefined notification rules based on tags and conditions to streamline team notifications."
further_reading:
- link: "/monitors/notify/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure monitor notifications"
- link: "/monitors/settings/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Monitor Settings"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/monitor-notification-rules/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Route your monitor alerts with Datadog monitor notification rules"
---

## Overview

Monitor notification rules are predefined sets of conditions that automate the process of alerting your team based on tags and rule logic. Instead of individually configuring recipients for every monitor, notification rules let you define once and automatically route all monitor notifications whose notification tagset matches the rule's scope.

<div class="alert alert-info">There is a default limit of 1000 rules per organization.</a>.</div>

## Setup

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/notification_rule_form-light.png" alt="Configuration for a notification rule showing scopes, routing conditions, recipients, and matching monitors" style="width:100%;" >}}

<div class="alert alert-danger">You must have the <a href="/account_management/rbac/permissions/#monitors"><code>monitor_config_policy_write</code> permission</a> to create a rule.</div>

To create a Monitor Notification Rule in Datadog, do the following:

1. Go to [**Notification Rules**][1].
2. Click **New Rule**.
3. [Configure the scope](#configure-the-scope): Define the required tags for a monitor notification to be routed to this rule.
4. [Configure the recipients](#configure-the-recipients): Specify who to alert and under what conditions.
5. Add a clear and identifiable rule name.

### Configure the scope

Add the required tags for a monitor notification to be routed to this rule. Matching evaluates the notification tagset. Learn more in [How matching works](#how-matching-works).

<div class="alert alert-info">Monitors created or updated after the notification rule is saved are routed to the defined recipients if it matches the scope of the rule.</div>

{{% collapse-content title="Rule scope syntax" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

The Notification Rule scope query supports Boolean logic and follows the [event-based search syntax][3] supported by many other platform products.

| Syntax Element | Description |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| **Boolean operators** | Supported: `AND`, `OR`, `NOT`<br>Implicit operator: `AND` |
| **Wildcards** | Only `key:*` is supported (for example, `env:*`). Partial wildcards like `env:prod-*` are not supported. `key:*` matches if the key exists anywhere in the notification tagset. |
| **Multiple values for the same key** | Use either `env:(prod OR staging)` or `env:prod OR env:staging`. |
| **Quoting** | Wrap values that contain spaces or special characters in quotes, for example: `team:"data platform"`. |
{{% /collapse-content %}}


{{% collapse-content title="Scope examples" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

| Notification Rule scope | Explanation |
| ------------------- | ---------------------- |
| `service:web-store`       | Route any notification about the `web-store` service. |
| `service:web-store AND env:prod`       | Route any notification about the `web-store` service running on the `prod` environment. |
| `service:webstore AND  NOT env:staging`       | Route any notification about the `web-store` service that is **not** running on the `staging` environment. |
| `env:*`       | Route any notification that carry the `env:<value>` tag (either from monitor tags or group). |

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title="Rule scope limitations" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

The following are **not supported**:

* Keyless tags, such as `prod AND service:(A or B)` or `prod`, aren't supported. Tags need to have a key, in this case for example `env:prod`.
* Partial wildcards (`service:web-*`) and question mark wildcards `service:auth?` are not supported. Wildcard is allowed only if used alone like `service:*`.
* Scope length up to 3000 characters.
{{% /collapse-content %}}


### Configure the recipients

Specify which recipients to notify when a monitor notification matches the rule's scope. You can always notify all recipients, or set conditional recipients that are only notified when certain conditions are met (for example, route critical alerts to your on-call recipient, and send warnings to a Slack channel).
Conditions can be based on monitor status or tags:
- **Status-based conditions**: Notify recipients when the monitor transitions to a specific status (Alert, OK, Warn, or No data).
- **Tag-based conditions**: Notify recipients when a specific tag key has a given value (for example, `env:prod`). Each condition supports only one tag key.

Notifications can be sent to email or any integration channel. There is a limit of 50 notification recipients per rule. For more information, see [Notifications][2].

## Managing notification rules

### From Monitor Settings

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/notification_rules_table.png" alt="List of notification rules in Monitor Settings" style="width:100%;" >}}

The [Monitor Notification Rules][1] page displays a table of all your notification rules with the following columns:

- **Name**: Notification rule name
- **Scope**: Shows the tag combinations that define when this rule applies (for example, `team:shopist service:web-store env:prod`).
- **Team**: Lists the teams that this notification rule is associated with (available only when the team tag is added in the scope)
- **Coverage**: Shows the number of monitors that match this rule's scopes. Use this to verify rule coverage and identify rules that need adjustment.
- **Notifies**: Lists the notification channels (such as Slack or email) that will receive alerts when this rule matches.

Additionally, you can click the vertical three-dot menu on the notification rule to **Edit** or **Delete**.

### From an individual monitor
In your monitor configuration, the **Recipient Summary** shows recipients that are applied to the monitor by matching notification rules. On the **Monitor** edit page, you may also see rules that _could_ match when new groups report (multi alert monitors). The **Monitor** status page shows rules that match.

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/monitor_matching_notification_rule.png" alt="Recipient summary field showing the notification recipients applied by notification rules" style="width:100%;" >}}

## How matching works

- Notification tagset is the union of monitor tags and tags of the firing group (for multi alert monitors). If a key has multiple values across monitor/group, all values are considered.
- Currently matches: A rule matches if at least one reporting group, combined with monitor tags, satisfies the scope; or, if the monitor tags alone do. NOT is evaluated per candidate tagset, so a group with a denied value does not match.
- Could match when new groups report (multi alert monitors, Monitor edit surface): Treat each group-by key as present with any value, constrained by the monitor query's allow/deny filters.
- If multiple rules match a single notification, recipients from all matching rules are merged and de-duplicated.

{{< img src="/monitors/notifications/notification_rules/diagram_notification-rules.png" alt="Flowchart showing how Monitor notification rules match tags, combine recipients from monitors and rules, and remove duplicates before sending alerts" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{% collapse-content title="Example: Notification Rule Matching" level="h4" expanded=false %}}

The following table demonstrates how monitors with different tag combinations match notification rules and their resulting notifications. This table shows how:
1. Multiple notification rules can match a single monitor notification based on its tags.
2. The AND logic works for multiple tags within a rule.
3. All matching notification rules contribute their recipients to the final notification list.
4. Recipients are deduplicated in the final notification list.

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th></th>
            <th colspan="5" style="text-align: center; border-bottom: 1px solid #ddd; background-color:rgb(98, 92, 92);">Notification Rules</th>
            <th></th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8;"></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>team:shopist,<br>service:web-store</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>team:shopist</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>service:web-store</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>service:web-store<br>env:prod</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><code>service:web-store<br>env:dev</code></th>
            <th style="background-color:#E8E8E8;"></th>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8;"><strong>MONITOR ALERT TAGS AND NOTIFICATIONS</strong></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@slack-channel1</i><br><i>@jira-project</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@jira-project</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@jira-project</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8; border: 1px solid #ddd;"><i>@jira-project</i></td>
            <td style="background-color:#E8E8E8;"><strong>NOTIFIED HANDLES</strong></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>team:shopist, service:web-store</code><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@slack-channel1</i><br><i>@jira-project</i><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>team:shopist</code></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@jira-project</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>service:web-store</code></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@jira-project</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>service:web-store, env:prod</code></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@jira-project</i><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>service:web-store, env:dev</code></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td><i>@jira-project</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>team:shopist and service:web-store, env:prod</code><br><i>@slack-service1</i><br><i>@jira-project</i><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center">{{< X >}}</td>
            <td style="text-align: center"></td>
            <td><i>@slack-channel1</i><br><i>@slack-service1</i><br><i>@jira-project</i><br><i>@user@datadoghq.com</i></td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

{{% /collapse-content %}}

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/monitors/settings/notifications
[2]: /monitors/notify/#notifications
[3]: /getting_started/search/#event-based-queries
