content/en/dashboards/ddsql_editor/reference/_index.md, before:

---
title: DDSQL Reference
kind: documentation
---

{{< callout url="https://google.com">}}
DDSQL is in private beta.
{{< /callout >}}

## Supported SQL syntax

SQL is broken into five different categories of statements. The table below indicates which categories are supported by DDSQL.

| Category                           | Examples                                         | Support                                        |
|------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| DQL (Data Query Language)          | `SELECT`, `AGGR` (DDSQL alternative to `SELECT`) | Supported                                      |
| DML (Data Modification Language)   | `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`                     | Limited: Data is not persisted across sessions |
| DDL (Data Description Language)    | `CREATE`                                         | Limited: Data is not persisted across sessions |
| DCL (Data Control Language)        | `GRANT`, `REVOKE`                                | Not supported                                  |
| TCL (Transaction Control Language) | `BEGIN`, `END`, `ROLLBACK`                       | Not supported                                  |

## Usage details

{{< whatsnext desc="For usage details, see the relevant documentation:" >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/statements" >}}Statements (such as `SELECT`){{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/data_types" >}}Data types{{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/expressions_and_operators" >}}Expressions and operators{{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/scalar_functions" >}}Scalar functions (one computed value per row){{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/aggregation_functions" >}}Aggregation functions (one computed value per query or group){{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/window_functions" >}}Window functions{{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/tags" >}}Working with tags{{< /nextlink >}}
{{< /whatsnext >}}

## Sessions

DDSQL queries are executed within a session. The session provides the user with a writable DDSQL environment.

{{< code-block lang="sql" >}}
SELECT 1; SELECT 2;
{{< /code-block >}}

Some options, such as time frame, are exposed runtime parameters within the environment and may be modified with `SET` and read with `SHOW`. Modifications made by SQL statements (for example, DDL or DML statements) are visible by subsequent statements in a session, but do not outlive the session. You can think of a session as executing within a `BEGIN ... ROLLBACK`.

The default schema in the session includes foreign table definitions that model different parts of the downstream data sources that DDSQL supports.

## Schema on read

"Schema on read" describes a strategy to apply a schema to data as it is read rather than when it is written. In DDSQL, it is used to enable SQL queries against unstructured data.

If a table supports schema on read, references to nonexistent table columns are considered legal, and those references are mapped to the table in a way that is defined by the downstream. For many downstreams, these become tag references.

If a column reference cannot be unambiguously mapped to a single table, it is considered an ambiguous reference. Because schema-on-read columns don't exist in the catalog, they can typically only be used without specifying the correlation if there is exactly one table in the `FROM` clause that supports schema on read.

## Aliases

Aliases are substitute names for output expressions or `FROM` items. An alias is used for brevity or to eliminate ambiguity for self-joins (where the same table is scanned multiple times).

{{< code-block lang="sql" >}}
SELECT * FROM my_long_hosts_table_name as hosts
{{< /code-block >}}

When an alias is provided in a `FROM` item, it completely hides the actual name of the table or function. In the above example, the remainder of the DQLExpr must refer to `my_long_hosts_table_name` as `hosts`.

Commit message:

Clean up DDSQL reference index

content/en/dashboards/ddsql_editor/reference/_index.md, after:

---
title: DDSQL Reference
kind: documentation
---

{{< callout url="https://google.com">}}
DDSQL is in private beta.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

With DDSQL, you can use SQL syntax to query your infrastructure in Datadog. DDSQL implements several standard SQL functions, as well as a few functions for working with Datadog tags, metrics, and so on. For example, [the `AGGR` statement], which aggregates metrics data, is unique to DDSQL.

DDSQL uses a [schema on read](#schema-on-read) approach to allow [queries against tags][1], not just structured data. Each query is executed within a [session](#sessions) that can be configured with environment variables.

## Supported SQL syntax

SQL is broken into five different categories of statements. The table below indicates which categories are supported by DDSQL.

| Category   | Examples    | Support      |
|------------|-------------|--------------|
| DQL (Data Query Language)   | `SELECT`, `AGGR` (DDSQL alternative to `SELECT`) | Supported    |
| DML (Data Modification Language)  | `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`   | Limited: Data is not persisted across sessions |
| DDL (Data Description Language)  | `CREATE`   | Limited: Data is not persisted across sessions |
| DCL (Data Control Language)        | `GRANT`, `REVOKE`   | Not supported       |
| TCL (Transaction Control Language) | `BEGIN`, `END`, `ROLLBACK`  | Not supported     |

## Usage details

{{< whatsnext desc="For usage details, see the relevant documentation:" >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/statements" >}}Statements (such as `SELECT`){{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/data_types" >}}Data types{{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/expressions_and_operators" >}}Expressions and operators{{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/scalar_functions" >}}Scalar functions (one computed value per row){{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/aggregation_functions" >}}Aggregation functions (one computed value per query or group){{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/window_functions" >}}Window functions{{< /nextlink >}}
   {{< nextlink href="dashboards/ddsql/reference/tags" >}}Working with tags{{< /nextlink >}}
{{< /whatsnext >}}

## Sessions

DDSQL queries are executed within a session. The session provides the user with a writable DDSQL environment.

{{< code-block lang="sql" >}}
SELECT 1; SELECT 2;
{{< /code-block >}}

Some options, such as time frame, are exposed runtime parameters within the environment and may be modified with [`SET`] and read with [`SHOW`]. Modifications made by SQL statements (for example, DDL or DML statements) are visible by subsequent statements in a session, but do not outlive the session. You can think of a session as executing within a `BEGIN ... ROLLBACK`.

The default schema in the session includes foreign table definitions that model different parts of the downstream data sources that DDSQL supports.

## Schema on read

"Schema on read" describes a strategy to apply a schema to data as it is read rather than when it is written. In DDSQL, it is used to enable SQL queries against unstructured data.

If a table supports schema on read, references to nonexistent table columns are considered legal, and those references are mapped to the table in a way that is defined by the downstream. For many downstreams, these become tag references.

If a column reference cannot be unambiguously mapped to a single table, it is considered an ambiguous reference. Because schema-on-read columns don't exist in the catalog, they can typically only be used without specifying the correlation if there is exactly one table in the `FROM` clause that supports schema on read.

[1]: /dashboards/ddsql_editor/reference/tags
