content/en/security/cloud_security_management/review_remediate/workflows.md, before:

---
title: Automate Security Workflows with Workflow Automation
further_reading:
  - link: "/security/cloud_security_management"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: Cloud Security
  - link: "/service_management/workflows/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: Workflow Automation
aliases:
  - /security/cloud_security_management/workflows
products:
  - name: Workload Protection
    url: /security/workload_protection/
    icon: cloud-security-management
  - name: Cloud Security Misconfigurations
    url: /security/cloud_security_management/misconfigurations/
    icon: cloud-security-management
  - name: Cloud Security Identity Risks
    url: /security/cloud_security_management/identity_risks/
    icon: cloud-security-management
site_support_id: workflows
---

{{< product-availability >}}

[Datadog Workflow Automation][1] allows you to orchestrate and automate your end-to-end processes by building workflows made up of actions that connect to your infrastructure and tools.

Use Workflow Automation with [Cloud Security][2] to automate your security-related workflows. For example, you can create workflows that allow you to [block access to a public Amazon S3 bucket via an interactive Slack message](#block-access-to-aws-s3-bucket-via-slack), or [automatically create a Jira issue and assign it to a team](#automatically-create-and-assign-a-jira-issue).

## Understanding how triggers and sources work

Workflow Automation allows you to trigger a workflow manually or automatically. In the example workflows in this article, the workflows are triggered manually by clicking the **Actions** > **Run Workflow** button on the side panels.

When you trigger a workflow, the source ID of the trigger event must be passed on to the next step in the workflow. In the examples in this article, the trigger events are a new security finding. In both cases, the source IDs are specified in the initial step of the workflow using [source object variables][7].

## Build a workflow

You can build a workflow using a preconfigured flow from an out-of-the-box blueprint, or by creating a custom workflow. For detailed instructions on how to create a workflow, see the [Workflow Automation docs][3].

### Block access to Amazon S3 bucket via Slack

This example creates a remediation workflow that sends an interactive Slack message when a public Amazon S3 bucket is detected. By clicking **Approve** or **Reject**, you can automatically block access to the S3 bucket or decline to take action.

**Note**: To build this workflow, you must configure the [Slack integration][5].

1. On the [Workflow Automation page][4], click **New Workflow**.
1. Click **Add Trigger** > **Security**. A workflow must have the security trigger before you can run it.
1. Enter a name for the workflow and click **Save**.

#### Get security misconfiguration

To retrieve the security misconfiguration and pass it into the workflow, use the **Get security finding** action. The action uses the `{{ Source.securityFinding.id }}` source object variable to retrieve the misconfiguration's details from the [**Get a finding**][8] API endpoint.

1. Click **Add Step** to add the first step to your workflow.
1. Search for the **Get security finding** action and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
1. Click the step in the workflow canvas to configure it.
1. For **Finding ID**, enter `{{ Source.securityFinding.id }}`.
1. Click **Save** to save your workflow.

#### Add JS function

Next, add the JavaScript Data Transformation Function action to the canvas and configure it to return the region name from the misconfiguration's tags.

1. Click the plus (`+`) icon on the workflow canvas to add another step.
2. Search for the **JS Function** action and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and paste the following in the script editor:
   {{< code-block lang="javascript" >}}
    // Gets the region info from the misconfiguration tags
    // Use `$` to access Trigger or Steps data.
    // Use `_` to access Lodash.
    // See https://lodash.com/ for reference.

    let tags = $.Steps.Get_security_finding.tags

    let region = tags.filter(t => t.includes('region:'))
    if(region.length == 1){
        return region[0].split(':')[1]
    } else {
        return '';
    }
    {{< /code-block >}}

#### Add Slack action

1. Click the plus (`+`) icon on the workflow canvas to add another step.
2. Search for the **Make a decision** action for Slack and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Workspace**: The name of your Slack workspace.
    - **Channel**: The channel to send the Slack message to.
    - **Prompt text**: The text that appears immediately above the choice buttons in the Slack message, for example, "Would you like to block public access for `{{ Steps.Get_security_finding.resource }}` in region `{{ Steps.GetRegion.data }}`?"

##### Approve workflow

1. Under **Approve** on the workflow canvas, click the plus (`+`) icon to add another step.
2. Search for the **Block Public Access** action for Amazon S3 and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Connection**: The name of the workflow connection for the AWS integration.
    - **Region**: `{{ Steps.GetRegion.data }}`
    - **Bucket name**: `{{ Steps.Get_security_finding.resource }}`
4. Under the **Block public access** step on the workflow canvas, click the plus (`+`) icon to add another step.
5. Search for the **Send message** action for Slack and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Workspace**: The name of your Slack workspace.
    - **Channel**: The channel to send the Slack message to.
    - **Message text**: The text that appears in the Slack message. For example:
    {{< code-block lang="text" >}}
    S3 bucket `{{ Steps.Get_security_finding.resource }}` successfully blocked. AWS API response: 
    ```{{ Steps.Block_public_access }}```

    The issue will be marked as fixed the next time the resource is scanned, which can take up to one hour.
    {{< /code-block >}}

##### Reject workflow

1. Under **Reject** on the workflow canvas, click the plus (`+`) icon to add another step.
2. Search for the **Send message** action for Slack and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Workspace**: The name of your Slack workspace.
    - **Channel**: The channel to send the Slack message to.
    - **Message text**: The text that appears in the Slack message, for example, "User declined the action".
4. Click **Save**.

### Automatically create and assign a Jira issue

This example creates an automated ticket routing workflow that creates and assigns a Jira issue to the appropriate team when a security finding is detected.

**Note**: To build this workflow, you must configure the [Jira integration][6].

1. On the [Workflow Automation page][4], click **New Workflow**.
1. Click **Add Trigger** > **Security**. A workflow must have the security trigger before you can run it.
1. Enter a name for the workflow and click **Save**.

#### Get security finding

To retrieve the finding and pass it into the workflow, use the **Get security finding** action. The action uses the `{{ Source.securityFinding.id }}` source object variable to retrieve the finding's details from the [**Get a finding**][8] API endpoint.

1. Click **Add Step** to add the first step to your workflow.
1. Search for the **Get security finding** action and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
1. Click the step in the workflow canvas to configure it.
1. For **Security ID**, enter `{{ Source.securityFinding.id }}`.

#### Add Jira action

1. Click the plus (`+`) icon on the workflow canvas to add another step.
2. Search for the **Create issue** Jira action and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Jira account**: The URL of your Jira account.
    - **Project**: `{{ Source.securityFinding.tags_value.team }}`
    - **Summary**: `{{ Source.securityFinding.rule.name }}`
4. Click **Save**.

## Trigger a workflow

You can trigger an existing workflow from the misconfiguration or identity risks explorers, as well as when you have a resource open in a side panel.
- In an explorer, hover over the resource, click the **Actions** dropdown that appears, then click **Run workflow**.
  {{< img src="security/cspm/run_workflow_explorer.png" alt="Running a workflow on a resource from the misconfigurations explorer" style="width:100%;" >}}
- In the side panel, in the **Next Steps** section, **Run Workflow**, and select a workflow to run.
  {{< img src="security/cspm/run_workflow_next_steps.png" alt="Running a workflow from the Next Steps section of a side panel" style="width:30%;" >}}

The workflow must have a security trigger to appear in the list of workflows you can run. Depending on the workflow, you may be required to enter additional input parameters, such as incident details and severity, the name of the impacted S3 bucket, or the Slack channel you want to send an alert to.

After running the workflow, additional information is shown on the side panel. You can click the link to view the workflow.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /service_management/workflows
[2]: /security/cloud_security_management/
[3]: /service_management/workflows/build/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/workflow
[5]: /integrations/slack/
[6]: /integrations/jira/
[7]: /service_management/workflows/build/#source-object-variables
[8]: /api/latest/security-monitoring/#get-a-finding

Commit message:

[SEC-27555] Update documentation of workflows for security findings (#34157)
* update workflow doc

* address comments

* "triggers"

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: domalessi <111786334+domalessi@users.noreply.github.com>

* address remaining comments

* Apply suggestions from code review

---------

Co-authored-by: domalessi <111786334+domalessi@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/security/cloud_security_management/review_remediate/workflows.md, after:

---
title: Automate Security Workflows with Workflow Automation
further_reading:
  - link: "/security/cloud_security_management"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: Cloud Security
  - link: "/service_management/workflows/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: Workflow Automation
aliases:
  - /security/cloud_security_management/workflows
products:
  - name: Workload Protection
    url: /security/workload_protection/
    icon: cloud-security-management
  - name: Cloud Security Misconfigurations
    url: /security/cloud_security_management/misconfigurations/
    icon: cloud-security-management
  - name: Cloud Security Identity Risks
    url: /security/cloud_security_management/identity_risks/
    icon: cloud-security-management
site_support_id: workflows
---

{{< product-availability >}}

[Datadog Workflow Automation][1] allows you to orchestrate and automate your end-to-end processes by building workflows made up of actions that connect to your infrastructure and tools.

Use Workflow Automation with [Cloud Security][2] to automate your security-related workflows. For example, you can create workflows that allow you to [block access to a public Amazon S3 bucket via an interactive Slack message](#block-access-to-aws-s3-bucket-via-slack), or [automatically create a Jira issue and assign it to a team](#automatically-create-and-assign-a-jira-issue).

## Understanding how triggers and sources work

Workflow Automation allows you to trigger a workflow manually or automatically. In the following examples, the workflows are triggered manually by clicking the **Run Workflow** button in the **Next Steps** box at the top of the side panel.

When you trigger a workflow, the [source object variables][7] specified in the trigger are passed into the workflow and can be used in subsequent steps. In the following examples, the trigger event is a new security finding.

## Build a workflow

You can build a workflow using a preconfigured flow from an out-of-the-box blueprint, or by creating a custom workflow. For detailed instructions on how to create a workflow, see the [Workflow Automation docs][3].

### Block access to Amazon S3 bucket via Slack

This example creates a remediation workflow that sends an interactive Slack message when a public Amazon S3 bucket is detected. By clicking **Approve** or **Reject**, you can automatically block access to the S3 bucket or decline to take action.

**Note**: To build this workflow, you must configure the [Slack integration][5].

#### Initialize the workflow

1. On the [Workflow Automation page][4], click **New Workflow**.
1. Click **Add Trigger** > **Security**. 

   **Note**: A workflow must include a security trigger before you can run it. 

   The trigger’s [source object variables][7] allow you to access security misconfiguration data, such as the title (`{{ Source.securityFinding.attributes.title }}`).
1. Enter a name for the workflow and click **Save**.

#### Add JS function

Next, add the JavaScript Data Transformation Function action to the canvas and configure it to return the region name from the misconfiguration's tags.

1. Click the plus (`+`) icon on the workflow canvas to add another step.
2. Search for the **JS Function** action and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and paste the following in the script editor:
   {{< code-block lang="javascript" >}}
    // Gets the region info from the misconfiguration tags
    // Use `$` to access Trigger or Steps data.
    // Use `_` to access Lodash.
    // See https://lodash.com/ for reference.

    let tags = $.Source.securityFinding.tags

    let region = tags.filter(t => t.includes('region:'))
    if(region.length == 1){
        return region[0].split(':')[1]
    } else {
        return '';
    }
    {{< /code-block >}}

#### Add Slack action

1. Click the plus (`+`) icon on the workflow canvas to add another step.
2. Search for the **Make a decision** action for Slack and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Workspace**: The name of your Slack workspace.
    - **Channel**: The channel to send the Slack message to.
    - **Prompt text**: The text that appears immediately above the choice buttons in the Slack message, for example, "Would you like to block public access for `{{ Source.securityFinding.attributes.resource_name }}` in region `{{ Steps.GetRegion.data }}`?"

##### Approve workflow

1. Under **Approve** on the workflow canvas, click the plus (`+`) icon to add another step.
2. Search for the **Block Public Access** action for Amazon S3 and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Connection**: The name of the workflow connection for the AWS integration.
    - **Region**: `{{ Steps.GetRegion.data }}`
    - **Bucket name**: `{{ Source.securityFinding.attributes.resource_name }}`
4. Under the **Block public access** step on the workflow canvas, click the plus (`+`) icon to add another step.
5. Search for the **Send message** action for Slack and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Workspace**: The name of your Slack workspace.
    - **Channel**: The channel to send the Slack message to.
    - **Message text**: The text that appears in the Slack message. For example:
    {{< code-block lang="text" >}}
    S3 bucket `{{ Source.securityFinding.attributes.resource_name }}` successfully blocked. AWS API response: 
    ```{{ Steps.Block_public_access }}```

    The issue will be marked as fixed the next time the resource is scanned, which can take up to one hour.
    {{< /code-block >}}

##### Reject workflow

1. Under **Reject** on the workflow canvas, click the plus (`+`) icon to add another step.
2. Search for the **Send message** action for Slack and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Workspace**: The name of your Slack workspace.
    - **Channel**: The channel to send the Slack message to.
    - **Message text**: The text that appears in the Slack message, for example, "User declined the action".
4. Click **Save**.

### Automatically create and assign a Jira issue

This example creates an automated ticket routing workflow that creates and assigns a Jira issue to the appropriate team when a security finding is detected.

**Note**: To build this workflow, you must configure the [Jira integration][6].

#### Initialize the workflow

1. On the [Workflow Automation page][4], click **New Workflow**.
1. Click **Add Trigger** > **Security**. 

   **Note**: A workflow must include a security trigger before you can run it. 
   
   The trigger’s [source object variables][7] allow you to access security misconfiguration data, such as the title `{{ Source.securityFinding.attributes.title }}`.
1. Enter a name for the workflow and click **Save**.

#### Add Jira action

1. Click the plus (`+`) icon on the workflow canvas to add another step.
2. Search for the **Create issue** Jira action and select it to add it as a step on your workflow canvas.
3. Click the step in the workflow canvas and enter the following information:
    - **Jira account**: The URL of your Jira account.
    - **Project**: `{{ Source.securityFinding.tags_value.team }}`
    - **Summary**: `{{ Source.securityFinding.attributes.title }}`
4. Click **Save**.

## Trigger a workflow

You can trigger an existing workflow from the misconfiguration or identity risks explorers, as well as when you have a resource open in a side panel.
- In an explorer, hover over the resource, click the **Actions** dropdown that appears, then click **Run workflow**.
  {{< img src="security/cspm/run_workflow_explorer.png" alt="Running a workflow on a resource from the misconfigurations explorer" style="width:100%;" >}}
- In the side panel, in the **Next Steps** section, **Run Workflow**, and select a workflow to run.
  {{< img src="security/cspm/run_workflow_next_steps.png" alt="Running a workflow from the Next Steps section of a side panel" style="width:30%;" >}}

The workflow must have a security trigger to appear in the list of workflows you can run. Depending on the workflow, you may be required to enter additional input parameters, such as incident details and severity, the name of the impacted S3 bucket, or the Slack channel you want to send an alert to.

After running the workflow, additional information is shown on the side panel. You can click the link to view the workflow.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /service_management/workflows
[2]: /security/cloud_security_management/
[3]: /service_management/workflows/build/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/workflow
[5]: /integrations/slack/
[6]: /integrations/jira/
[7]: /actions/workflows/variables/#context-variables
[8]: /api/latest/security-monitoring/#get-a-finding
