---
title: How Dynamic Instrumentation Works
kind: documentation
private: true
---


## Overview

Dynamic instrumentation allows you to add instrumentation into your running production systems without any restarts and at any location in your application's code, including third-party libraries. You can add or modify telemetry along the main observability pillars namely, logs, metrcs, spans and respective tagging, from the Datadog UI. 

Dynamic Instrumentation has low overhead and is guaranteed to have no side effects on your system.

## Probe types

You can create *log probes*, *metric probes*, *span probes*,  *span tag probes*.

### Log probes

Log probes are enabled by default on all service instances that match the specified environment and version. They are rate limited to execute at most 5000 times per second, on each service instance.

If you enable `Capture method parameters and local variables` on the log probe, Dynamic Instrumentation captures the following data and adds it to the log event:
  - **Method arguments**, **local variables**, and **fields**, with the following limits by default:
    - Follow references three levels deep (configurable in the UI).
    - The first 100 items inside collections.
    - The first 255 characters for string values.
    - 20 fields inside objects. Static fields are not collected.
  - Call **stack trace**.
  - Caught and uncaught **exceptions**.

Because capturing extra data is performance intensive, by default it is enabled on only one instance of your service that matches the specified environment and version. Probes with this capture setting enabled are rate limited to execute once per second.

You must set a log message template on every log probe. The template supports embedding expressions inside curly brackets. For example: `User {user.id} purchased {count(products)} products`.

You can also set a condition on a log probe using the [expression language](#expression-language). The expression must evaluate to a Boolean. The probe executes if the expression is true, and does not capture or emit any data if the expression is false.

**Note**: The capture limits are configurable and subject to change while Dynamic Instrumentation is in beta.

### Metric probes

Metric probes are enabled by default on all service instances that match the specified environment and version. Metric probes are not rate limited and execute every time the method or line is invoked.

Dynamic Instrumentation metric probes support the following metric types:

- [**Count**][1]: Counts how many times a given method or line is executed. Can be combined with [metric expressions](#expression-language) to use the value of a variable to increment the count.
- [**Gauge**][2]: Generates a gauge based on the last value of a variable. This metric requires a [metric expression](#expression-language).
- [**Histogram**][3]: Generates a statistical distribution of a variable. This metric requires a [metric expression](#expression-language).

### Span probes

Span probes are enabled by default on all service instances that match the specified environment and version. Spans probes are not rate limited and behave in the same way as if you have put a custom instrumentation annotation on your selected method.

Spans that are generated by a span probe carry the dd.dynamic_instrumentation as operation name and Class and method name as resource name. 

### Span Tag probes

Span Tag probes are enabled by default on all service instances that match the specified environment and version. Span tag probes are extending tags on existing spans without changing the rest of the trace structure. It works the same way as adding a span tag in your code: #####TODO LINK TO DOCS####.

Tags can be based on varaibels or static. Variable tags use  the same expression language as the other probes [metric expressions](#expression-language).

Conditions for span tags:

Service entry or active span:

#### Expression language

Use the Dynamic Instrumentation expression language in log message templates, metric expressions, and probe conditions.

For example, you can create a histogram from the size of a collection using `count(myCollection)` as the metric expression. Metric expressions must evaluate to a number.

In log templates, expressions are delimited from the static parts of the template with brackets, for example: `User name {user.name}`. Log template expressions can evaluate to any value. If evaluating the expression fails, it is replaced with `UNDEFINED`.

Probe conditions must evaluate to a Boolean, for example: `startsWith(user.name, "abc")`, `len(str) > 20` or `a == b`.

#####TABLE OF BUILD IN EXPRESSIONS####

[1]: /metrics/types/?tab=count#metric-types
[2]: /metrics/types/?tab=gauge#metric-types
[3]: /metrics/types/?tab=histogram#metric-types
