content/en/security/guide/security-findings-migration.md, before:

---
title: Migrate to the New Security Findings Data Model
description: Learn how to migrate to the unified Security Findings query syntax and data model, which consolidates querying across Cloud Security and Code Security findings.
private: true
further_reading:
- link: "/security/cloud_security_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Security"
- link: "/security/code_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Code Security"
- link: "/security/application_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Application Security"
---

## Overview

To make it easier to search for security findings throughout Datadog, the syntax for search queries is changing:
- **Standardized naming conventions** for security finding data fields
- **A new schema** to consistently organize those fields across security products

While this change comes with a set of [new features](#new-features) that use the new schema, it may also impact your existing workflows. This page details what is changing, the workflows that Datadog will automatically update, and the changes you need to make to avoid interruptions in your existing workflows.

{{< learning-center-callout header="" btn_title="View the schema" btn_url="/security/guide/findings-schema/" hide_image="true" >}}
  View the new security findings schema so you can understand how finding details will be stored.
{{< /learning-center-callout >}}

### Required action

This change affects all interfaces where you can query security findings data. While some queries will receive automatic updates, others require updates on your part:
- **No change required** - queries will be updated automatically
  - Explorers, dashboards, notification rules, and automation pipelines
- **Changes required** - update your queries by **April 1, 2026**
  - Workflow Automation and Sheets
  - API and Terraform resources
  <div class="alert alert-warning">Datadog will deprecate legacy API and Terraform resources. Update your queries on time so you can avoid workflow interruptions.</div>

If you need assistance with your migration, contact [Datadog support][14].

## What is changing

### New features

Starting January 2026, the following features use the new data model:
- Unified search queries for Cloud Security [Misconfigurations][9], [Identity Risks][10], [Attack Paths][11], [IaC][12], and [API][13] findings
- A new unified public findings API
- [Dashboard][2] support for Code Security
- Graphing security findings in [Datadog Sheets][3]
- Datadog [Workflow Automation][4] support for all finding types
- Using SQL to query security findings and join them with other Datadog telemetry using [DDSQL Editor][5]

With additional future changes:

- Cloud Security Vulnerabilities
- Code Security findings (SCA, SAST, IAST, Secrets)
- [Data Access Controls][6]
- Security findings & tools in the [Datadog MCP Server][7]
- API & Terraform support for [automation pipelines][8]

### Security findings

Security findings encompass misconfigurations, vulnerabilities, and security risks identified across your infrastructure and applications. This table shows the scope of security findings across Datadog and which findings are currently supported in the new data model.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Product</th>
      <th>Findings</th>
      <th>Support</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4"><a href="/security/cloud_security_management/"><strong>Cloud Security</strong></a></td>
      <td>Misconfigurations (CSPM)</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Identity risks (CIEM)</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Attack paths</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Host & container vulnerabilities</td>
      <td>Will be supported in the future</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="/security/application_security/"><strong>App & API Protection</strong></a> (Preview)</td>
      <td>API security findings</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="5"><a href="/security/code_security/"><strong>Code Security</strong></a></td>
      <td>Infrastructure as code (IaC)</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Library vulnerabilities (SCA)</td>
      <td rowspan="4">Will be supported in the future</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Static code vulnerabilities (SAST)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Runtime code vulnerabilities (IAST)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Secrets</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### New querying syntax

Following this change, you can use the same query syntax for all security findings, using attributes organized around namespaces. Here are some practical examples:

| Before | After (all findings) |
|--------|----------------------|
| **Misconfigurations:** `@workflow.triage.status:open status:critical`<br>**Library vulnerabilities:** `status:open severity:Critical` | `@status:open @severity:critical` |
| **Misconfigurations:** `@dd_computed_attributes.is_publicly_accessible:true`<br>**Host Vulnerabilities:** `is_publicly_accessible:Accessible` | `@risk.is_publicly_accessible:true` |
| **Library Vulnerabilities:** `library_name:org.apache.logging.log4j`<br>**Host Vulnerabilities:** `package:org.apache.logging.log4j` | `@package.name:org.apache.logging.log4j` |

View the full specification at [Security Findings Schema Reference][1].

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /security/guide/findings-schema/
[2]: /dashboards
[3]: /sheets
[4]: /actions/workflows
[5]: /ddsql_editor
[6]: /account_management/rbac/data_access
[7]: /bits_ai/mcp_server
[8]: /security/automation_pipelines
[9]: /security/cloud_security_management/misconfigurations/
[10]: /security/cloud_security_management/identity_risks/
[11]: /security/security_inbox/?s=attack%20path#types-of-findings-in-security-inbox
[12]: /security/code_security/iac_security/
[13]: /security/application_security/api-inventory/#api-findings
[14]: /help

Commit message:

Security Findings doc improvements:
list resources that will break
fixed ETA
other minor improvements

content/en/security/guide/security-findings-migration.md, after:

---
title: Migrate to the New Security Findings Data Model
description: Learn how to migrate to the unified Security Findings query syntax and data model, which consolidates querying across Cloud Security and Code Security findings.
private: true
further_reading:
- link: "/security/cloud_security_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Security"
- link: "/security/code_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Code Security"
- link: "/security/application_security/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Application Security"
---

## Overview

To make it easier to search for security findings throughout Datadog, the syntax for search queries is changing:
- **Standardized naming conventions** for security finding data fields
- **A new schema** to consistently organize those fields across security products

While this change comes with a set of [new features](#new-features) that use the new schema, it may also impact your existing workflows. This page details what is changing, the workflows that Datadog will automatically update, and the changes you need to make to avoid interruptions in your existing workflows.

{{< learning-center-callout header="" btn_title="View the schema" btn_url="/security/guide/findings-schema/" hide_image="true" >}}
  View the new security findings schema so you can understand how finding details will be stored.
{{< /learning-center-callout >}}

### Required action

This change affects all interfaces where you can query security findings data. While some queries will receive automatic updates, others require updates on your part:
- **No change required** - queries will be updated automatically
  - Explorers, dashboards, notification rules, and automation pipelines
- **Changes required** - update your queries by **April 1, 2026**
  - Workflow Automation and Sheets
  - API endpoints: [List findings][15] and [Get a finding][16]
  - Terraform resource: `datadog_security_notification_rule`
  <div class="alert alert-warning">Datadog will deprecate legacy API and Terraform resources. Update your queries on time so you can avoid workflow interruptions.</div>

If you need assistance with your migration, contact [Datadog support][14].

## What is changing

### New features

Starting late January 2026, the following features use the new data model:
- Unified search queries for Cloud Security [Misconfigurations][9], [Identity Risks][10], [Attack Paths][11], [IaC][12], and [API][13] findings
- A new unified public findings API
- [Dashboard][2] support for Code Security
- Graphing security findings in [Datadog Sheets][3]
- Datadog [Workflow Automation][4] support for all finding types
- Using SQL to query security findings and join them with other Datadog telemetry using [DDSQL Editor][5]

The following additional features will be released later:

- Unified search queries for Cloud Security Vulnerabilities and Code Security findings (SCA, SAST, IAST, Secrets)
- [Data Access Controls][6]
- Security findings & tools in the [Datadog MCP Server][7]
- API & Terraform support for [automation pipelines][8]

### Security findings

Security findings encompass misconfigurations, vulnerabilities, and security risks identified across your infrastructure and applications. This table shows the scope of security findings across Datadog and which findings will be supported in the new data model.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Product</th>
      <th>Finding Type</th>
      <th>Support</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="4"><a href="/security/cloud_security_management/"><strong>Cloud Security</strong></a></td>
      <td>Misconfigurations (CSPM)</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Identity risks (CIEM)</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Attack paths</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Host & container vulnerabilities</td>
      <td>Will be supported in the future</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><a href="/security/application_security/"><strong>App & API Protection</strong></a> (Preview)</td>
      <td>API security findings</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td rowspan="5"><a href="/security/code_security/"><strong>Code Security</strong></a></td>
      <td>Infrastructure as code (IaC)</td>
      <td>Supported</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Library vulnerabilities (SCA)</td>
      <td rowspan="4">Will be supported in the future</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Static code vulnerabilities (SAST)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Runtime code vulnerabilities (IAST)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Secrets</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### New querying syntax

Following this change, you can use the same query syntax for all security findings, using attributes organized around namespaces. Here are some practical examples:

| Before | After (all findings) |
|--------|----------------------|
| **Misconfigurations:** `@workflow.triage.status:open status:critical`<br>**Library vulnerabilities:** `status:open severity:Critical` | `@status:open @severity:critical` |
| **Misconfigurations:** `@dd_computed_attributes.is_publicly_accessible:true`<br>**Host Vulnerabilities:** `is_publicly_accessible:Accessible` | `@risk.is_publicly_accessible:true` |
| **Library Vulnerabilities:** `library_name:org.apache.logging.log4j`<br>**Host Vulnerabilities:** `package:org.apache.logging.log4j` | `@package.name:org.apache.logging.log4j` |

View the full specification at [Security Findings Schema Reference][1].

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /security/guide/findings-schema/
[2]: /dashboards
[3]: /sheets
[4]: /actions/workflows
[5]: /ddsql_editor
[6]: /account_management/rbac/data_access
[7]: /bits_ai/mcp_server
[8]: /security/automation_pipelines
[9]: /security/cloud_security_management/misconfigurations/
[10]: /security/cloud_security_management/identity_risks/
[11]: /security/security_inbox/?s=attack%20path#types-of-findings-in-security-inbox
[12]: /security/code_security/iac_security/
[13]: /security/application_security/api-inventory/#api-findings
[14]: /help
[15]: /api/latest/security-monitoring/#list-findings
[16]: /api/latest/security-monitoring/#get-a-finding
