---
title: Event Management
kind: documentation
description: Learn how to use Event Management in your pipeline.
is_beta: true
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">Event Management is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

{{< callout url="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeYkh0jFy_wMCLGKZ5019H0DpFvq0fILvyJEt_gRyeGgvRymA/viewform" header="false" >}}
Event Management are in private beta. To request access, complete the form.
{{< /callout >}}

Event Management allows you to aggregates events from a company IT infrastructure or services to reduce alert noise, proactively surface undetected issues, and trigger incidents or auto-remediation actions.

## Set up Event Management
There are two main ways to correlate events:
1. Rule based. 
2. Topology based. 

## Rule based
To create Event Correlation rules for your organization.

1. In Datadog, navigate to [**Service Management** > **Event Management** > **Correlation Rules**][1] and click **+ Add a Correlation Rule**.
2. Select the source of the events. You can choose alerting source like monitor alert and non-alerting source like kubernetes. 
3. Define the grouping attribute. This defines how the events are grouped together. 
4. Select the time window over which the rule is evaluated.
5. Select a rule name that describes the rule that you are creating.
6. Add additional tags. Cases generated by the rule will be automatically tagged with those tags.
7. Click **Save And Activate**.

## Topology based
No human configuration needed. Datadog automatically collects your service topological data and generates event correlation for you.

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /event/correlation-rules

