content/en/data_jobs/databricks.md, before:

---
title: Enable Data Jobs Monitoring for Databricks
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: '/data_jobs'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Data Jobs Monitoring'
---

{{< callout url="https://forms.gle/PZUoEgtBsH6qM62MA" >}}
Data Jobs Monitoring is in private beta. Fill out this form to join the wait list.
{{< /callout >}}

[Data Jobs Monitoring][7] gives visibility into the performance and reliability of your Apache Spark and Databricks jobs.

## Setup

Follow these steps to enable Data Jobs Monitoring for Databricks.

1. [Configure the Datadog-Databricks integration](#configure-the-datadog-databricks-integration) with your Databricks API token.
1. [Install the Datadog Agent](#install-the-datadog-agent-on-your-databricks-clusters) on your Databricks cluster(s).

### Configure the Datadog-Databricks integration

1. In your Databricks workspace, go to **Settings** > **Developer**. Next to **Access tokens**, click **Manage**.
1. Click **Generate new token**, enter a comment, and click **Generate**. Take note of your token.
1. In Datadog, open the Databricks integration tile.
1. On the **Configure** tab, click **Add New**.
1. Enter a workspace name, your Databricks workspace URL, and the Databricks token you generated.
   {{< img src="data_jobs/databricks/configure-token.png" alt="In the Datadog-Databricks integration tile, a Databricks workspace is displayed. This workspace has a name, URL, and API token." style="width:100%;" >}}


### Install the Datadog Agent on your Databricks cluster(s)

You can choose to install the Agent globally, or on a specific Databricks cluster.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Global init (Recommended)" %}}

1. In Databricks, click your display name (email address) in the upper right corner of the page.
1. Select **Settings** and click the **Compute** tab.
1. In the **All purpose clusters** section, next to **Global init scripts**, click **Manage**.
1. Click **Add**. Name your script. Then, in the **Script** field, copy and paste the following script, remembering to replace the placeholders with your parameter values. 

   ```shell
   #!/bin/bash

   # Required parameters
   export DD_API_KEY=<YOUR API KEY>
   export DD_SITE=<YOUR DATADOG SITE>
   export DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE="<YOUR WORKSPACE NAME>"

   # Download and run the latest init script
   bash -c "$(curl -L https://dd-data-jobs-monitoring-setup.s3.amazonaws.com/scripts/databricks/databricks_init_latest.sh)" || true
   ```

   The script above sets the required parameters, downloads and runs the latest init script for Data Jobs Monitoring in Databricks. If you want to pin your script to a specific version, you can replace the file name in the URL with `databricks_init_1.0.0.sh` to use the last stable version.

1. To enable the script for all new and restarted clusters, toggle **Enabled**.
   {{< img src="data_jobs/databricks/toggle.png" alt="Databricks UI, admin settings, global init scripts. A script called 'install-datadog-agent' is in a list with an enabled toggle." style="width:100%;" >}}
1. Click **Add**.

#### Set the required init script parameters

Provide the values for the init script parameters at the beginning of the global init script.

```bash
export DD_API_KEY=<YOUR API KEY>
export DD_SITE=<YOUR DATADOG SITE>
export DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE="<YOUR WORKSPACE NAME>"
```

Optionally, you can also set other init script parameters and Datadog environment variables here, such as `DD_ENV` and `DD_SERVICE`. The script can be configured using the following parameters:

| Variable                 | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| DD_API_KEY               | Your [Datadog API key][1].                                                                                                                                        |         |
| DD_SITE                  | Your [Datadog site][2].                                                                                                                                           |         |
| DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE     | Name of your Databricks Workspace. It should match the name provided in the [Datadog-Databricks integration step](#configure-the-datadog-databricks-integration). Enclose the name in double quotes if it contains whitespace. |         |
| DRIVER_LOGS_ENABLED      | Collect spark driver logs in Datadog.                                                                                                                          | false   |
| WORKER_LOGS_ENABLED      | Collect spark workers logs in Datadog.                                                                                                                         | false   |
| DD_DJM_ADD_LOGS_TO_FAILURE_REPORT      | Include init script logs for debugging when reporting a failure back to Datadog. | false |

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[2]: /getting_started/site/

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "On a specific cluster" %}}

1. In Databricks, create a init script file in **Workspace** with the following content. Be sure to make note of the file path.
   ```shell
   #!/bin/bash

   # Download and run the latest init script
   bash -c "$(curl -L https://dd-data-jobs-monitoring-setup.s3.amazonaws.com/scripts/databricks/databricks_init_latest.sh)" || true
   ```

   The script above downloads and runs the latest init script for Data Jobs Monitoring in Databricks. If you want to pin your script to a specific version, you can replace the file name in the URL with `databricks_init_1.0.0.sh` to use the last stable version.

1. On the cluster configuration page, click the **Advanced options** toggle.
1. At the bottom of the page, go to the **Init Scripts** tab.
   {{< img src="data_jobs/databricks/init_scripts.png" alt="Databricks UI, cluster configuration advanced options,  Init Scripts tab. A 'Destination' drop-down and an 'Init script path' file selector." style="width:80%;" >}}
   - Under the **Destination** drop-down, select `Workspace`.
   - Under **Init script path**, enter the path to your init script.
   - Click **Add**.

#### Set the required init script parameters

1. In Databricks, on the cluster configuration page, click the **Advanced options** toggle.
2. At the bottom of the page, go to the **Spark** tab.
   {{< img src="data_jobs/databricks/configure-databricks-cluster-init-script-quoted.png" alt="Databricks UI, cluster configuration advanced options, Spark tab. A textbox titled 'Environment variables' contains values for DD_API_KEY and DD_SITE." style="width:100%;" >}}

   In the **Environment variables** textbox, provide the values for the init script parameters.

   ```text
   DD_API_KEY=<YOUR API KEY>
   DD_SITE=<YOUR DATADOG SITE>
   DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE="<YOUR WORKSPACE NAME>"
   ```

   Optionally, you can also set other init script parameters and Datadog environment variables here, such as `DD_ENV` and `DD_SERVICE`. The script can be configured using the following parameters:

| Variable                 | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| DD_API_KEY               | Your [Datadog API key][1].                                                                                                                                        |         |
| DD_SITE                  | Your [Datadog site][2].                                                                                                                                           |         |
| DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE     | Name of your Databricks Workspace. It should match the name provided in the [Datadog-Databricks integration step](#configure-the-datadog-databricks-integration). Enclose the name in double quotes if it contains whitespace. |         |
| DRIVER_LOGS_ENABLED      | Collect spark driver logs in Datadog.                                                                                                                          | false   |
| WORKER_LOGS_ENABLED      | Collect spark workers logs in Datadog.                                                                                                                         | false   | 
| DD_DJM_ADD_LOGS_TO_FAILURE_REPORT      | Include init script logs for debugging when reporting a failure back to Datadog. | false |


[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[2]: /getting_started/site/

3. Click **Confirm**.

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Validation

In Datadog, view the [Data Jobs Monitoring][6] page to see a list of all your Databricks jobs.

## Advanced Configuration

### Tag spans at runtime

{{% djm-runtime-tagging %}}

### Aggregate cluster metrics from one-time job runs
   This configuration is applicable if you want cluster resource utilization data about your jobs and create a new job and cluster for each run via the [one-time run API endpoint][8] (common when using orchestration tools outside of Databricks such as Airflow or Azure Data Factory).

   If you are submitting Databricks Jobs via the [one-time run API endpoint][8], each job run will have a unique job ID. This can make it difficult to group and analyze cluster metrics for jobs that use ephemeral clusters. To aggregate cluster utilization from the same job and assess performance across multiple runs, you must set the `DD_JOB_NAME` variable inside the `spark_env_vars` of every `new_cluster` to the same value as your request payload's `run_name`.

   Here's an example of a one-time job run request body:
   
   {{< highlight json "hl_lines=2 18" >}}
   {
      "run_name": "Example Job",
      "idempotency_token": "8f018174-4792-40d5-bcbc-3e6a527352c8",
      "tasks": [
         {
            "task_key": "Example Task",
            "description": "Description of task",
            "depends_on": [],
            "notebook_task": {
               "notebook_path": "/Path/to/example/task/notebook",
               "source": "WORKSPACE"
            },
            "new_cluster": {
               "num_workers": 1,
               "spark_version": "13.3.x-scala2.12",
               "node_type_id": "i3.xlarge",
               "spark_env_vars": {
                  "DD_JOB_NAME": "Example Job"
               }
            }
         }
      ]
   }
   {{< /highlight >}}

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/integrations/databricks?search=databricks
[4]: https://docs.databricks.com/en/security/secrets/index.html
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/data-jobs/
[7]: /data_jobs
[8]: https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/jobs/submit

Commit message:

update data jobs monitoring setup guide to call out steps in databricks integration steps wrt token permissions.

content/en/data_jobs/databricks.md, after:

---
title: Enable Data Jobs Monitoring for Databricks
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: '/data_jobs'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Data Jobs Monitoring'
---

{{< callout url="https://forms.gle/PZUoEgtBsH6qM62MA" >}}
Data Jobs Monitoring is in private beta. Fill out this form to join the wait list.
{{< /callout >}}

[Data Jobs Monitoring][7] gives visibility into the performance and reliability of your Apache Spark and Databricks jobs.

## Setup

Follow these steps to enable Data Jobs Monitoring for Databricks.

1. [Configure the Datadog-Databricks integration](#configure-the-datadog-databricks-integration) with your Databricks API token.
1. [Install the Datadog Agent](#install-the-datadog-agent-on-your-databricks-clusters) on your Databricks cluster(s).

### Configure the Datadog-Databricks integration

1. In your Databricks workspace, go to **Settings** > **Developer**. Next to **Access tokens**, click **Manage**.
1. Click **Generate new token**, enter a comment, leave the Lifetime as empty and click **Generate**. Take note of your token.
1. As an alternative, follow [the guide][10] to generate access token for a [service principal][11].
1. Ensure the account generating the token has [CAN VIEW][9] access for Databricks Jobs you want to monitor and the token is configured to never expire.
1. In Datadog, open the Databricks integration tile.
1. On the **Configure** tab, click **Add New**.
1. Enter a workspace name, your Databricks workspace URL, and the Databricks token you generated.
   {{< img src="data_jobs/databricks/configure-token.png" alt="In the Datadog-Databricks integration tile, a Databricks workspace is displayed. This workspace has a name, URL, and API token." style="width:100%;" >}}


### Install the Datadog Agent on your Databricks cluster(s)

You can choose to install the Agent globally, or on a specific Databricks cluster.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Global init (Recommended)" %}}

1. In Databricks, click your display name (email address) in the upper right corner of the page.
1. Select **Settings** and click the **Compute** tab.
1. In the **All purpose clusters** section, next to **Global init scripts**, click **Manage**.
1. Click **Add**. Name your script. Then, in the **Script** field, copy and paste the following script, remembering to replace the placeholders with your parameter values. 

   ```shell
   #!/bin/bash

   # Required parameters
   export DD_API_KEY=<YOUR API KEY>
   export DD_SITE=<YOUR DATADOG SITE>
   export DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE="<YOUR WORKSPACE NAME>"

   # Download and run the latest init script
   bash -c "$(curl -L https://dd-data-jobs-monitoring-setup.s3.amazonaws.com/scripts/databricks/databricks_init_latest.sh)" || true
   ```

   The script above sets the required parameters, downloads and runs the latest init script for Data Jobs Monitoring in Databricks. If you want to pin your script to a specific version, you can replace the file name in the URL with `databricks_init_1.0.0.sh` to use the last stable version.

1. To enable the script for all new and restarted clusters, toggle **Enabled**.
   {{< img src="data_jobs/databricks/toggle.png" alt="Databricks UI, admin settings, global init scripts. A script called 'install-datadog-agent' is in a list with an enabled toggle." style="width:100%;" >}}
1. Click **Add**.

#### Set the required init script parameters

Provide the values for the init script parameters at the beginning of the global init script.

```bash
export DD_API_KEY=<YOUR API KEY>
export DD_SITE=<YOUR DATADOG SITE>
export DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE="<YOUR WORKSPACE NAME>"
```

Optionally, you can also set other init script parameters and Datadog environment variables here, such as `DD_ENV` and `DD_SERVICE`. The script can be configured using the following parameters:

| Variable                 | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| DD_API_KEY               | Your [Datadog API key][1].                                                                                                                                        |         |
| DD_SITE                  | Your [Datadog site][2].                                                                                                                                           |         |
| DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE     | Name of your Databricks Workspace. It should match the name provided in the [Datadog-Databricks integration step](#configure-the-datadog-databricks-integration). Enclose the name in double quotes if it contains whitespace. |         |
| DRIVER_LOGS_ENABLED      | Collect spark driver logs in Datadog.                                                                                                                          | false   |
| WORKER_LOGS_ENABLED      | Collect spark workers logs in Datadog.                                                                                                                         | false   |
| DD_DJM_ADD_LOGS_TO_FAILURE_REPORT      | Include init script logs for debugging when reporting a failure back to Datadog. | false |

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[2]: /getting_started/site/

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "On a specific cluster" %}}

1. In Databricks, create a init script file in **Workspace** with the following content. Be sure to make note of the file path.
   ```shell
   #!/bin/bash

   # Download and run the latest init script
   bash -c "$(curl -L https://dd-data-jobs-monitoring-setup.s3.amazonaws.com/scripts/databricks/databricks_init_latest.sh)" || true
   ```

   The script above downloads and runs the latest init script for Data Jobs Monitoring in Databricks. If you want to pin your script to a specific version, you can replace the file name in the URL with `databricks_init_1.0.0.sh` to use the last stable version.

1. On the cluster configuration page, click the **Advanced options** toggle.
1. At the bottom of the page, go to the **Init Scripts** tab.
   {{< img src="data_jobs/databricks/init_scripts.png" alt="Databricks UI, cluster configuration advanced options,  Init Scripts tab. A 'Destination' drop-down and an 'Init script path' file selector." style="width:80%;" >}}
   - Under the **Destination** drop-down, select `Workspace`.
   - Under **Init script path**, enter the path to your init script.
   - Click **Add**.

#### Set the required init script parameters

1. In Databricks, on the cluster configuration page, click the **Advanced options** toggle.
2. At the bottom of the page, go to the **Spark** tab.
   {{< img src="data_jobs/databricks/configure-databricks-cluster-init-script-quoted.png" alt="Databricks UI, cluster configuration advanced options, Spark tab. A textbox titled 'Environment variables' contains values for DD_API_KEY and DD_SITE." style="width:100%;" >}}

   In the **Environment variables** textbox, provide the values for the init script parameters.

   ```text
   DD_API_KEY=<YOUR API KEY>
   DD_SITE=<YOUR DATADOG SITE>
   DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE="<YOUR WORKSPACE NAME>"
   ```

   Optionally, you can also set other init script parameters and Datadog environment variables here, such as `DD_ENV` and `DD_SERVICE`. The script can be configured using the following parameters:

| Variable                 | Description                                                                                                                                                      | Default |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| DD_API_KEY               | Your [Datadog API key][1].                                                                                                                                        |         |
| DD_SITE                  | Your [Datadog site][2].                                                                                                                                           |         |
| DATABRICKS_WORKSPACE     | Name of your Databricks Workspace. It should match the name provided in the [Datadog-Databricks integration step](#configure-the-datadog-databricks-integration). Enclose the name in double quotes if it contains whitespace. |         |
| DRIVER_LOGS_ENABLED      | Collect spark driver logs in Datadog.                                                                                                                          | false   |
| WORKER_LOGS_ENABLED      | Collect spark workers logs in Datadog.                                                                                                                         | false   | 
| DD_DJM_ADD_LOGS_TO_FAILURE_REPORT      | Include init script logs for debugging when reporting a failure back to Datadog. | false |


[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[2]: /getting_started/site/

3. Click **Confirm**.

{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

## Validation

In Datadog, view the [Data Jobs Monitoring][6] page to see a list of all your Databricks jobs.

## Advanced Configuration

### Tag spans at runtime

{{% djm-runtime-tagging %}}

### Aggregate cluster metrics from one-time job runs
   This configuration is applicable if you want cluster resource utilization data about your jobs and create a new job and cluster for each run via the [one-time run API endpoint][8] (common when using orchestration tools outside of Databricks such as Airflow or Azure Data Factory).

   If you are submitting Databricks Jobs via the [one-time run API endpoint][8], each job run will have a unique job ID. This can make it difficult to group and analyze cluster metrics for jobs that use ephemeral clusters. To aggregate cluster utilization from the same job and assess performance across multiple runs, you must set the `DD_JOB_NAME` variable inside the `spark_env_vars` of every `new_cluster` to the same value as your request payload's `run_name`.

   Here's an example of a one-time job run request body:
   
   {{< highlight json "hl_lines=2 18" >}}
   {
      "run_name": "Example Job",
      "idempotency_token": "8f018174-4792-40d5-bcbc-3e6a527352c8",
      "tasks": [
         {
            "task_key": "Example Task",
            "description": "Description of task",
            "depends_on": [],
            "notebook_task": {
               "notebook_path": "/Path/to/example/task/notebook",
               "source": "WORKSPACE"
            },
            "new_cluster": {
               "num_workers": 1,
               "spark_version": "13.3.x-scala2.12",
               "node_type_id": "i3.xlarge",
               "spark_env_vars": {
                  "DD_JOB_NAME": "Example Job"
               }
            }
         }
      ]
   }
   {{< /highlight >}}

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/integrations/databricks?search=databricks
[4]: https://docs.databricks.com/en/security/secrets/index.html
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/data-jobs/
[7]: /data_jobs
[8]: https://docs.databricks.com/api/workspace/jobs/submit
[9]: https://docs.databricks.com/en/security/auth-authz/access-control/index.html#job-acls
[10]: https://docs.databricks.com/en/admin/users-groups/service-principals.html#manage-personal-access-tokens-for-a-service-principal
[11]: https://docs.databricks.com/en/admin/users-groups/service-principals.html#what-is-a-service-principal
