content/en/serverless/installation/_index.md, before:

---
title: Installing Serverless Monitoring
kind: documentation
aliases:
    - /serverless/installation/installing_the_library/
further_reading:
    - link: 'serverless/installation/node'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Installing Node.js Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: 'serverless/installation/ruby'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Installing Ruby Serverless Monitoring'
---

## Quick start

If you are new to Datadog, you can get started by [signing up for a Datadog account][5], then following the instructions for [installing Datadog's Lambda Extension][6]. Completing these steps will configure your Lambda functions to send real-time metrics, logs, and traces to Datadog:

{{< img src="serverless/aws-fully-managed-services-serverless-monitoring-hero.png" alt="Datadog Serverless Monitoring"  style="width:100%;" >}}

## Installation instructions

For more detailed installation instructions, select the Lambda runtime below for instructions to instrument your serverless application:

{{< partial name="serverless/getting-started-languages.html" >}}

[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/signup/
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/signup/agent#lambda

Commit message:

"serverless-plugin-datadog": "0.7.0", Serverless configuration in a single page

content/en/serverless/installation/_index.md, after:

---
title: Installing Serverless Monitoring
kind: documentation
aliases:
    - /serverless/installation/installing_the_library/
further_reading:
    - link: '/serverless/configuration/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Configure Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: "/integrations/amazon_lambda/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "AWS Lambda Integration"
---

## Quick start

If you are new to Datadog, [sign up for a Datadog account][1], then follow the installation instructions for [AWS Lambda][2]. Completing the steps will configure your Lambda functions to send real-time metrics, logs, and traces to Datadog.

## Installation instructions

For more detailed installation instructions, select the Lambda runtime below:

{{< partial name="serverless/getting-started-languages.html" >}}

## Advanced Configurations

After the installation and collecting the telemetry, follow the [advanced configurations][3] to:

- connect your metrics, traces, and logs using tags
- collect metrics, traces, and logs from AWS API Gateway, SQS, etc.
- collect the request and response payloads for individual Lambda invocations
- link errors of your Lambda functions to your source code
- filter or scrub sensitive information from logs or traces

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/signup/
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/signup/agent#lambda
[3]: /serverless/configuration/
