content/en/serverless/installation/go.md, before:

---
title: Instrumenting Go Serverless Applications
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: '/serverless/configuration'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Configure Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: '/serverless/guide/troubleshoot_serverless_monitoring'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Troubleshoot Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: 'serverless/custom_metrics/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Submitting Custom Metrics from Serverless Applications'
aliases:
    - /serverless/datadog_lambda_library/go/
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">If your Go Lambda functions are still using runtime `go1.x` and you cannot migrate to the `provided.al2` runtime, you must instrument <a href="serverless/guide/datadog_forwarder_go">using the Datadog Forwarder</a> instead.</div>

## Installation

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Serverless Framework" %}}

The [Datadog Serverless Plugin][1] automatically configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Lambda Extension][2].

To install and configure the Datadog Serverless Plugin, follow these steps:

### Install the Datadog Serverless Plugin:

```sh
serverless plugin install --name serverless-plugin-datadog
```

### Update your `serverless.yml`:

```yaml
custom:
  datadog:
    site: <DATADOG_SITE>
    apiKeySecretArn: <DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>
```

To fill in the placeholders:
- Replace `<DATADOG_SITE>` with your [Datadog site][3] to send the telemetry to.
- Replace `<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][4] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can instead use `apiKey` and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

For more information and additional settings, see the [plugin documentation][1].

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/plugin
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/libraries_integrations/extension
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Custom" %}}
### Install the Datadog Lambda Extension

[Configure the layers][1] for your Lambda function using the ARN in the following format:

```sh
# Use this format for x86-based Lambda deployed in AWS commercial regions
arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

# Use this format for arm64-based Lambda deployed in AWS commercial regions
arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

# Use this format for x86-based Lambda deployed in AWS GovCloud regions
arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

# Use this format for arm64-based Lambda deployed in AWS GovCloud regions
arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
```

Replace `<AWS_REGION>` with a valid AWS region, such as `us-east-1`.

### Configure the required environment variables

- Set `DD_SITE` to your [Datadog site][2] to send the telemetry to.
- Set `DD_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN` to the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][3] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `DD_API_KEY` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-layers.html
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Install the Datadog Lambda library

```
go get github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-go
```

### Update your Lambda function code

```go
package main

import (
  "github.com/aws/aws-lambda-go/lambda"
  "github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-go"
  "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/ddtrace/tracer"
  httptrace "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/contrib/net/http"
)

func main() {
  // Wrap your lambda handler
  lambda.Start(ddlambda.WrapFunction(myHandler, nil))
}

func myHandler(ctx context.Context, event MyEvent) (string, error) {
  // Trace an HTTP request
  req, _ := http.NewRequestWithContext(ctx, "GET", "https://www.datadoghq.com", nil)
  client := http.Client{}
  client = *httptrace.WrapClient(&client)
  client.Do(req)

  // Submit a custom metric
  ddlambda.Metric(
    "coffee_house.order_value", // Metric name
    12.45, // Metric value
    "product:latte", "order:online" // Associated tags
  )

  // Create a custom span
  s, _ := tracer.StartSpanFromContext(ctx, "child.span")
  time.Sleep(100 * time.Millisecond)
  s.Finish()
}
```

## What's next?

- Congratulations! You can now view metrics, logs, and traces on the [Serverless Homepage][1].
- See the [troubleshooting guide][2] if you have trouble collecting the telemetry
- See the [advanced configurations][3] to
    - connect your telemetry using tags
    - collect telemetry for AWS API Gateway, SQS, etc.
    - capture the Lambda request and response payloads
    - link errors of your Lambda functions to your source code
    - filter or scrub sensitive information from logs or traces

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/functions
[2]: /serverless/guide/troubleshoot_serverless_monitoring/
[3]: /serverless/configuration/

Commit message:

More explicit on lambda layer format

content/en/serverless/installation/go.md, after:

---
title: Instrumenting Go Serverless Applications
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: '/serverless/configuration'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Configure Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: '/serverless/guide/troubleshoot_serverless_monitoring'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Troubleshoot Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: 'serverless/custom_metrics/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Submitting Custom Metrics from Serverless Applications'
aliases:
    - /serverless/datadog_lambda_library/go/
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">If your Go Lambda functions are still using runtime `go1.x` and you cannot migrate to the `provided.al2` runtime, you must instrument <a href="serverless/guide/datadog_forwarder_go">using the Datadog Forwarder</a> instead.</div>

## Installation

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Serverless Framework" %}}

The [Datadog Serverless Plugin][1] automatically configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Lambda Extension][2].

To install and configure the Datadog Serverless Plugin, follow these steps:

### Install the Datadog Serverless Plugin:

```sh
serverless plugin install --name serverless-plugin-datadog
```

### Update your `serverless.yml`:

```yaml
custom:
  datadog:
    site: <DATADOG_SITE>
    apiKeySecretArn: <DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>
```

To fill in the placeholders:
- Replace `<DATADOG_SITE>` with your [Datadog site][3] to send the telemetry to.
- Replace `<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][4] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can instead use `apiKey` and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

For more information and additional settings, see the [plugin documentation][1].

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/plugin
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/libraries_integrations/extension
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Custom" %}}
### Install the Datadog Lambda Extension

[Add the Lambda layer][1] of Datadog Lambda Extension to your Lambda functions, using the ARN format based on your AWS region and architecture:

```sh
# Use this format for x86-based Lambda deployed in AWS commercial regions
arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

# Use this format for arm64-based Lambda deployed in AWS commercial regions
arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

# Use this format for x86-based Lambda deployed in AWS GovCloud regions
arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

# Use this format for arm64-based Lambda deployed in AWS GovCloud regions
arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
```

Replace `<AWS_REGION>` with a valid AWS region, such as `us-east-1`.

### Configure the required environment variables

- Set `DD_SITE` to your [Datadog site][2] to send the telemetry to.
- Set `DD_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN` to the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][3] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `DD_API_KEY` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-layers.html
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Install the Datadog Lambda library

```
go get github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-go
```

### Update your Lambda function code

```go
package main

import (
  "github.com/aws/aws-lambda-go/lambda"
  "github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-go"
  "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/ddtrace/tracer"
  httptrace "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/contrib/net/http"
)

func main() {
  // Wrap your lambda handler
  lambda.Start(ddlambda.WrapFunction(myHandler, nil))
}

func myHandler(ctx context.Context, event MyEvent) (string, error) {
  // Trace an HTTP request
  req, _ := http.NewRequestWithContext(ctx, "GET", "https://www.datadoghq.com", nil)
  client := http.Client{}
  client = *httptrace.WrapClient(&client)
  client.Do(req)

  // Submit a custom metric
  ddlambda.Metric(
    "coffee_house.order_value", // Metric name
    12.45, // Metric value
    "product:latte", "order:online" // Associated tags
  )

  // Create a custom span
  s, _ := tracer.StartSpanFromContext(ctx, "child.span")
  time.Sleep(100 * time.Millisecond)
  s.Finish()
}
```

## What's next?

- Congratulations! You can now view metrics, logs, and traces on the [Serverless Homepage][1].
- See the [troubleshooting guide][2] if you have trouble collecting the telemetry
- See the [advanced configurations][3] to
    - connect your telemetry using tags
    - collect telemetry for AWS API Gateway, SQS, etc.
    - capture the Lambda request and response payloads
    - link errors of your Lambda functions to your source code
    - filter or scrub sensitive information from logs or traces

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/functions
[2]: /serverless/guide/troubleshoot_serverless_monitoring/
[3]: /serverless/configuration/
