content/en/serverless/installation/nodejs.md, before:

---
title: Instrumenting Node.js Serverless Applications
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: '/serverless/configuration'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Configure Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: '/serverless/guide/serverless_tracing_and_webpack/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Node.js Lambda Tracing and Webpack Compatibility'
    - link: '/serverless/guide/troubleshoot_serverless_monitoring'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Troubleshoot Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: 'serverless/custom_metrics/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Submitting Custom Metrics from Serverless Applications'
aliases:
    - /serverless/datadog_lambda_library/nodejs/
    - /serverless/guide/nodejs/
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">If you previously set up Datadog Serverless using the Datadog Forwarder, see <a href="serverless/guide/datadog_forwarder_node">Using the Datadog Forwarder - Node.js</a>.</div>

<div class="alert alert-warning">If your Lambda functions are deployed in VPC without access to the public internet, you can send data either <a href="/agent/guide/private-link/">using AWS PrivateLink</a> to the US1 (`datadoghq.com`) <a href="/getting_started/site/">Datadog site</a>, or <a href="/agent/proxy/">using a proxy</a> for all other sites.</div>

<div class="alert alert-warning">If you are bundling using webpack or esbuild, you may need to <a href="/serverless/guide/serverless_tracing_and_webpack/">mark the Datadog libraries as external</a>.</div>

## Installation

Datadog offers many different ways to enable instrumentation for your serverless applications. Choose a method below that best suits your needs. Datadog generally recommends using the Datadog CLI.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog CLI" %}}

The Datadog CLI modifies existing Lambda functions' configurations to enable instrumentation without requiring a new deployment. It is the quickest way to get started with Datadog's serverless monitoring.

1. Install the Datadog CLI client

    ```sh
    npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci
    ```

2. If you are new to Datadog serverless monitoring, launch the Datadog CLI in the interactive mode to guide your first installation for a quick start, and you can ignore the remaining steps. To permanently install Datadog for your production applications, skip this step and follow the remaining ones to run the Datadog CLI command in your CI/CD pipelines _after_ your normal deployment.

    ```sh
    datadog-ci lambda instrument -i
    ```

3. Configure the AWS credentials

    Datadog CLI requires access to the AWS Lambda service, and depends on the AWS JavaScript SDK to [resolve the credentials][1]. Ensure your AWS credentials are configured using the same method you would use when invoking the AWS CLI.

4. Configure the Datadog site

    Specify the [Datadog site][2] where the telemetry should be sent to. The default is `datadoghq.com`.

    ```sh
    export DATADOG_SITE="<DD_SITE>" # such as datadoghq.com, datadoghq.eu or ddog-gov.com
    ```

5. Configure the Datadog API key

    Datadog recommends saving the Datadog API key in AWS Secrets Manager for security and easy rotation. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. Ensure your Lambda functions have the required `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` IAM permission.

    ```sh
    export DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN="<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>"
    ```

    For quick testing purposes, you can also set the Datadog API key in plaintext:

    ```sh
    export DATADOG_API_KEY="<DATADOG_API_KEY>"
    ```

6. Instrument your Lambda functions

    **Note**: Instrument your Lambda functions in a dev or staging environment first! Should the instrumentation result be unsatisfactory, run `uninstrument` with the same arguments to revert the changes.

    To instrument your Lambda functions, run the following command.

    ```sh
    datadog-ci lambda instrument -f <functionname> -f <another_functionname> -r <aws_region> -v {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="node" >}} -e {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
    ```

    To fill in the placeholders:
    - Replace `<functionname>` and `<another_functionname>` with your Lambda function names. Alternatively, you can use `--functions-regex` to automatically instrument multiple functions whose names match the given regular expression.
    - Replace `<aws_region>` with the AWS region name.

    Additional parameters can be found in the [CLI documentation][3].


[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/setting-credentials-node.html
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/cli
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Serverless Framework" %}}

<div class="alert alert-info">If you are instead deploying your Serverless Framework app <a href="https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/intro">by natively exporting a JSON object from a JavaScript file</a> (for example, by using a <code>serverless.ts</code> file), follow the <a href="./?tab=custom">custom installation instructions</a>.</div>

The [Datadog Serverless Plugin][1] automatically configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Lambda Extension][2].

To install and configure the Datadog Serverless Plugin, follow these steps:

1. Install the Datadog Serverless Plugin:

    ```sh
    serverless plugin install --name serverless-plugin-datadog
    ```

2. Update your `serverless.yml`:

    ```yaml
    custom:
      datadog:
        site: <DATADOG_SITE>
        apiKeySecretArn: <DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>
    ```

    To fill in the placeholders:
    - Replace `<DATADOG_SITE>` with your [Datadog site][3] to send the telemetry to.
    - Replace `<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][4] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can instead use `apiKey` and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

    For more information and additional settings, see the [plugin documentation][1].

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/plugin
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/libraries_integrations/extension
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "AWS SAM" %}}

The [Datadog CloudFormation macro][1] automatically transforms your SAM application template to install Datadog to your functions using Lambda layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Lambda Extension][2].

1. Install the Datadog CloudFormation macro

    Run the following command with your [AWS credentials][3] to deploy a CloudFormation stack that installs the macro AWS resource. You only need to install the macro **once** for a given region in your account. Replace `create-stack` with `update-stack` to update the macro to the latest version.

    ```sh
    aws cloudformation create-stack \
      --stack-name datadog-serverless-macro \
      --template-url https://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws/serverless-macro/latest.yml \
      --capabilities CAPABILITY_AUTO_EXPAND CAPABILITY_IAM
    ```

    The macro is now deployed and ready to use.

2. Instrument your Lambda functions

    Add the `DatadogServerless` transform **after** the `AWS::Serverless` transform under the `Transform` section in your for SAM `template.yml`.

    ```yaml
    Transform:
      - AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
      - Name: DatadogServerless
        Parameters:
          stackName: !Ref "AWS::StackName"
          nodeLayerVersion: {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="node" >}}
          extensionLayerVersion: {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
          site: "<DATADOG_SITE>"
          apiKeySecretArn: "<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>"
    ```

    To fill in the placeholders:
    - Replace `<DATADOG_SITE>` with your [Datadog site][4] to send the telemetry to.
    - Replace `<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][5] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `apiKey` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

    More information and additional parameters can be found in the [macro documentation][1].


[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/macro
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/libraries_integrations/extension
[3]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "AWS CDK" %}}

The [Datadog CDK Construct][1] automatically installs Datadog to your functions using Lambda Layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the Datadog Lambda Extension.

1. Install the Datadog CDK constructs library

    ```sh
    # For AWS CDK v1
    npm install datadog-cdk-constructs --save-dev

    # For AWS CDK v2
    npm install datadog-cdk-constructs-v2 --save-dev
    ```

2. Instrument your Lambda functions

    ```javascript
    // For AWS CDK v1
    import { Datadog } from "datadog-cdk-constructs";

    // For AWS CDK v2
    import { Datadog } from "datadog-cdk-constructs-v2";

    const datadog = new Datadog(this, "Datadog", {
        nodeLayerVersion: {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="python" >}},
        extensionLayerVersion: {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}},
        site: "<DATADOG_SITE>",
        apiKeySecretArn: "<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>"
    });
    datadog.addLambdaFunctions([<LAMBDA_FUNCTIONS>])
    ```

    To fill in the placeholders:
    - Replace `<DATADOG_SITE>` with your [Datadog site][2] to send the telemetry to.
    - Replace `<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][3] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `apiKey` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

    More information and additional parameters can be found on the [Datadog CDK documentation][1].

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-cdk-constructs
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Container Image" %}}

1. Install the Datadog Lambda Library

    If you are deploying your Lambda function as a container image, you cannot use the Datadog Lambda library as a Lambda Layer. Instead, you must package the Datadog Lambda and tracing libraries within the image.

    ```sh
    npm install datadog-lambda-js dd-trace
    ```

    Note that the minor version of the `datadog-lambda-js` package always matches the layer version. For example, `datadog-lambda-js v0.5.0` matches the content of layer version 5.

2. Install the Datadog Lambda Extension

    Add the Datadog Lambda Extension to your container image by adding the following to your Dockerfile:

    ```dockerfile
    COPY --from=public.ecr.aws/datadog/lambda-extension:<TAG> /opt/extensions/ /opt/extensions
    ```

    Replace `<TAG>` with either a specific version number (for example, `{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}`) or with `latest`. You can see a complete list of possible tags in the [Amazon ECR repository][1].

3. Configure your Lambda functions

    - Set your image's `CMD` value to `node_modules/datadog-lambda-js/dist/handler.handler`. You can set this in AWS or directly in your Dockerfile. Note that the value set in AWS overrides the value in the Dockerfile if you set both.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_LAMBDA_HANDLER` to your original handler, for example, `myfunc.handler`.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_SITE` with your [Datadog site][2] to send the telemetry to.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][3] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `DD_API_KEY` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.


[1]: https://gallery.ecr.aws/datadog/lambda-extension
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Custom" %}}

<div class="alert alert-info">If you are not using a serverless development tool that Datadog supports, such as the Serverless Framework or AWS CDK, Datadog strongly encourages you instrument your serverless applications with the <a href="./?tab=datadogcli">Datadog CLI</a>.</div>

1. Install the Datadog Lambda library

    The Datadog Lambda Library can be imported either as a layer (recommended) _OR_ as a JavaScript package.

    The minor version of the `datadog-lambda-js` package always matches the layer version. For example, datadog-lambda-js v0.5.0 matches the content of layer version 5.

    - Option A: [Configure the layers][1] for your Lambda function using the ARN in the following format:

      ```sh
      # AWS commercial regions
      arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-<RUNTIME>:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="node" >}}

      # AWS GovCloud regions
      arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-<RUNTIME>:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="node" >}}
      ```

      Replace `<AWS_REGION>` with a valid AWS region, such as `us-east-1`. The available `RUNTIME` options are `Node12-x`, and `Node14-x`.

    - Option B: If you cannot use the prebuilt Datadog Lambda layer, alternatively you can install the packages `datadog-lambda-js` and `dd-trace` using your favorite package manager.

      ```
      npm install datadog-lambda-js dd-trace
      ```

2. Install the Datadog Lambda Extension

    [Configure the layers][1] for your Lambda function using the ARN in the following format:

    ```sh
    # AWS commercial regions (x86 and arm64, respectively)
    arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
    arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

    # AWS GovCloud regions (x86 and arm64, respectively)
    arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
    arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
    ```

    Replace `<AWS_REGION>` with a valid AWS region, such as `us-east-1`.

3. Configure your Lambda functions

    - Set your function's handler to `/opt/nodejs/node_modules/datadog-lambda-js/handler.handler` if using the layer, or `node_modules/datadog-lambda-js/dist/handler.handler` if using the package.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_LAMBDA_HANDLER` to your original handler, for example, `myfunc.handler`.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_SITE` with your [Datadog site][2] to send the telemetry to.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][3] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `DD_API_KEY` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-layers.html
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## What's next?

- Congratulations! You can now view metrics, logs, and traces on the [Serverless Homepage][1].
- See the sample code to [monitor custom business logic](#monitor-custom-business-logic)
- See the [troubleshooting guide][2] if you have trouble collecting the telemetry
- See the [advanced configurations][3] to
    - connect your telemetry using tags
    - collect telemetry for AWS API Gateway, SQS, etc.
    - capture the Lambda request and response payloads
    - link errors of your Lambda functions to your source code
    - filter or scrub sensitive information from logs or traces

### Monitor custom business logic

To monitor your custom business logic, submit a custom metric or span using the sample code below. For additional options, see [custom metric submission for serverless applications][4] and the APM guide for [custom instrumentation][5].

```javascript
const { sendDistributionMetric, sendDistributionMetricWithDate } = require('datadog-lambda-js');
const tracer = require('dd-trace');

// submit a custom span named "sleep"
const sleep = tracer.wrap('sleep', (ms) => {
    return new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, ms));
});

exports.handler = async (event) => {
    // add custom tags to the lambda function span,
    // does NOT work when X-Ray tracing is enabled
    const span = tracer.scope().active();
    span.setTag('customer_id', '123456');

    await sleep(100);

    // submit a custom span
    const sandwich = tracer.trace('hello.world', () => {
        console.log('Hello, World!');
    });

    // submit a custom metric
    sendDistributionMetric(
        'coffee_house.order_value', // metric name
        12.45, // metric value
        'product:latte', // tag
        'order:online' // another tag
    );

    const response = {
        statusCode: 200,
        body: JSON.stringify('Hello from serverless!')
    };
    return response;
};
```

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/functions
[2]: /serverless/guide/troubleshoot_serverless_monitoring/
[3]: /serverless/configuration/
[4]: /serverless/custom_metrics?tab=nodejs
[5]: /tracing/custom_instrumentation/nodejs/

Commit message:

More explicit on lambda layer format

content/en/serverless/installation/nodejs.md, after:

---
title: Instrumenting Node.js Serverless Applications
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: '/serverless/configuration'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Configure Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: '/serverless/guide/serverless_tracing_and_webpack/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Node.js Lambda Tracing and Webpack Compatibility'
    - link: '/serverless/guide/troubleshoot_serverless_monitoring'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Troubleshoot Serverless Monitoring'
    - link: 'serverless/custom_metrics/'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Submitting Custom Metrics from Serverless Applications'
aliases:
    - /serverless/datadog_lambda_library/nodejs/
    - /serverless/guide/nodejs/
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">If you previously set up Datadog Serverless using the Datadog Forwarder, see <a href="serverless/guide/datadog_forwarder_node">Using the Datadog Forwarder - Node.js</a>.</div>

<div class="alert alert-warning">If your Lambda functions are deployed in VPC without access to the public internet, you can send data either <a href="/agent/guide/private-link/">using AWS PrivateLink</a> to the US1 (`datadoghq.com`) <a href="/getting_started/site/">Datadog site</a>, or <a href="/agent/proxy/">using a proxy</a> for all other sites.</div>

<div class="alert alert-warning">If you are bundling using webpack or esbuild, you may need to <a href="/serverless/guide/serverless_tracing_and_webpack/">mark the Datadog libraries as external</a>.</div>

## Installation

Datadog offers many different ways to enable instrumentation for your serverless applications. Choose a method below that best suits your needs. Datadog generally recommends using the Datadog CLI.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog CLI" %}}

The Datadog CLI modifies existing Lambda functions' configurations to enable instrumentation without requiring a new deployment. It is the quickest way to get started with Datadog's serverless monitoring.

1. Install the Datadog CLI client

    ```sh
    npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci
    ```

2. If you are new to Datadog serverless monitoring, launch the Datadog CLI in the interactive mode to guide your first installation for a quick start, and you can ignore the remaining steps. To permanently install Datadog for your production applications, skip this step and follow the remaining ones to run the Datadog CLI command in your CI/CD pipelines _after_ your normal deployment.

    ```sh
    datadog-ci lambda instrument -i
    ```

3. Configure the AWS credentials

    Datadog CLI requires access to the AWS Lambda service, and depends on the AWS JavaScript SDK to [resolve the credentials][1]. Ensure your AWS credentials are configured using the same method you would use when invoking the AWS CLI.

4. Configure the Datadog site

    Specify the [Datadog site][2] where the telemetry should be sent to. The default is `datadoghq.com`.

    ```sh
    export DATADOG_SITE="<DD_SITE>" # such as datadoghq.com, datadoghq.eu or ddog-gov.com
    ```

5. Configure the Datadog API key

    Datadog recommends saving the Datadog API key in AWS Secrets Manager for security and easy rotation. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. Ensure your Lambda functions have the required `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` IAM permission.

    ```sh
    export DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN="<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>"
    ```

    For quick testing purposes, you can also set the Datadog API key in plaintext:

    ```sh
    export DATADOG_API_KEY="<DATADOG_API_KEY>"
    ```

6. Instrument your Lambda functions

    **Note**: Instrument your Lambda functions in a dev or staging environment first! Should the instrumentation result be unsatisfactory, run `uninstrument` with the same arguments to revert the changes.

    To instrument your Lambda functions, run the following command.

    ```sh
    datadog-ci lambda instrument -f <functionname> -f <another_functionname> -r <aws_region> -v {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="node" >}} -e {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
    ```

    To fill in the placeholders:
    - Replace `<functionname>` and `<another_functionname>` with your Lambda function names. Alternatively, you can use `--functions-regex` to automatically instrument multiple functions whose names match the given regular expression.
    - Replace `<aws_region>` with the AWS region name.

    Additional parameters can be found in the [CLI documentation][3].


[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/setting-credentials-node.html
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/cli
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Serverless Framework" %}}

<div class="alert alert-info">If you are instead deploying your Serverless Framework app <a href="https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/providers/aws/guide/intro">by natively exporting a JSON object from a JavaScript file</a> (for example, by using a <code>serverless.ts</code> file), follow the <a href="./?tab=custom">custom installation instructions</a>.</div>

The [Datadog Serverless Plugin][1] automatically configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Lambda Extension][2].

To install and configure the Datadog Serverless Plugin, follow these steps:

1. Install the Datadog Serverless Plugin:

    ```sh
    serverless plugin install --name serverless-plugin-datadog
    ```

2. Update your `serverless.yml`:

    ```yaml
    custom:
      datadog:
        site: <DATADOG_SITE>
        apiKeySecretArn: <DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>
    ```

    To fill in the placeholders:
    - Replace `<DATADOG_SITE>` with your [Datadog site][3] to send the telemetry to.
    - Replace `<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][4] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can instead use `apiKey` and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

    For more information and additional settings, see the [plugin documentation][1].

[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/plugin
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/libraries_integrations/extension
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "AWS SAM" %}}

The [Datadog CloudFormation macro][1] automatically transforms your SAM application template to install Datadog to your functions using Lambda layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the [Datadog Lambda Extension][2].

1. Install the Datadog CloudFormation macro

    Run the following command with your [AWS credentials][3] to deploy a CloudFormation stack that installs the macro AWS resource. You only need to install the macro **once** for a given region in your account. Replace `create-stack` with `update-stack` to update the macro to the latest version.

    ```sh
    aws cloudformation create-stack \
      --stack-name datadog-serverless-macro \
      --template-url https://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws/serverless-macro/latest.yml \
      --capabilities CAPABILITY_AUTO_EXPAND CAPABILITY_IAM
    ```

    The macro is now deployed and ready to use.

2. Instrument your Lambda functions

    Add the `DatadogServerless` transform **after** the `AWS::Serverless` transform under the `Transform` section in your for SAM `template.yml`.

    ```yaml
    Transform:
      - AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
      - Name: DatadogServerless
        Parameters:
          stackName: !Ref "AWS::StackName"
          nodeLayerVersion: {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="node" >}}
          extensionLayerVersion: {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
          site: "<DATADOG_SITE>"
          apiKeySecretArn: "<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>"
    ```

    To fill in the placeholders:
    - Replace `<DATADOG_SITE>` with your [Datadog site][4] to send the telemetry to.
    - Replace `<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][5] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `apiKey` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

    More information and additional parameters can be found in the [macro documentation][1].


[1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/macro
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/libraries_integrations/extension
[3]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "AWS CDK" %}}

The [Datadog CDK Construct][1] automatically installs Datadog to your functions using Lambda Layers, and configures your functions to send metrics, traces, and logs to Datadog through the Datadog Lambda Extension.

1. Install the Datadog CDK constructs library

    ```sh
    # For AWS CDK v1
    npm install datadog-cdk-constructs --save-dev

    # For AWS CDK v2
    npm install datadog-cdk-constructs-v2 --save-dev
    ```

2. Instrument your Lambda functions

    ```javascript
    // For AWS CDK v1
    import { Datadog } from "datadog-cdk-constructs";

    // For AWS CDK v2
    import { Datadog } from "datadog-cdk-constructs-v2";

    const datadog = new Datadog(this, "Datadog", {
        nodeLayerVersion: {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="python" >}},
        extensionLayerVersion: {{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}},
        site: "<DATADOG_SITE>",
        apiKeySecretArn: "<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>"
    });
    datadog.addLambdaFunctions([<LAMBDA_FUNCTIONS>])
    ```

    To fill in the placeholders:
    - Replace `<DATADOG_SITE>` with your [Datadog site][2] to send the telemetry to.
    - Replace `<DATADOG_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN>` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][3] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `apiKey` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

    More information and additional parameters can be found on the [Datadog CDK documentation][1].

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-cdk-constructs
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Container Image" %}}

1. Install the Datadog Lambda Library

    If you are deploying your Lambda function as a container image, you cannot use the Datadog Lambda library as a Lambda Layer. Instead, you must package the Datadog Lambda and tracing libraries within the image.

    ```sh
    npm install datadog-lambda-js dd-trace
    ```

    Note that the minor version of the `datadog-lambda-js` package always matches the layer version. For example, `datadog-lambda-js v0.5.0` matches the content of layer version 5.

2. Install the Datadog Lambda Extension

    Add the Datadog Lambda Extension to your container image by adding the following to your Dockerfile:

    ```dockerfile
    COPY --from=public.ecr.aws/datadog/lambda-extension:<TAG> /opt/extensions/ /opt/extensions
    ```

    Replace `<TAG>` with either a specific version number (for example, `{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}`) or with `latest`. You can see a complete list of possible tags in the [Amazon ECR repository][1].

3. Configure your Lambda functions

    - Set your image's `CMD` value to `node_modules/datadog-lambda-js/dist/handler.handler`. You can set this in AWS or directly in your Dockerfile. Note that the value set in AWS overrides the value in the Dockerfile if you set both.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_LAMBDA_HANDLER` to your original handler, for example, `myfunc.handler`.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_SITE` with your [Datadog site][2] to send the telemetry to.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][3] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `DD_API_KEY` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.


[1]: https://gallery.ecr.aws/datadog/lambda-extension
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Custom" %}}

<div class="alert alert-info">If you are not using a serverless development tool that Datadog supports, such as the Serverless Framework or AWS CDK, Datadog strongly encourages you instrument your serverless applications with the <a href="./?tab=datadogcli">Datadog CLI</a>.</div>

1. Install the Datadog Lambda library

    The Datadog Lambda Library can be imported either as a layer (recommended) _OR_ as a JavaScript package.

    The minor version of the `datadog-lambda-js` package always matches the layer version. For example, datadog-lambda-js v0.5.0 matches the content of layer version 5.

    - Option A: [Configure the layers][1] for your Lambda function using the ARN in the following format:

      ```sh
      # Use this format for AWS commercial regions
      arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-<RUNTIME>:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="node" >}}

      # Use this format for AWS GovCloud regions
      arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-<RUNTIME>:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="node" >}}
      ```

      Replace `<AWS_REGION>` with a valid AWS region, such as `us-east-1`. The available `RUNTIME` options are `Node12-x`, and `Node14-x`.

    - Option B: If you cannot use the prebuilt Datadog Lambda layer, alternatively you can install the packages `datadog-lambda-js` and `dd-trace` using your favorite package manager.

      ```
      npm install datadog-lambda-js dd-trace
      ```

2. Install the Datadog Lambda Extension

    [Configure the layers][1] for your Lambda function using the ARN in the following format:

    ```sh
    # Use this format for x86-based Lambda deployed in AWS commercial regions
    arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

    # Use this format for arm64-based Lambda deployed in AWS commercial regions
    arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

    # Use this format for x86-based Lambda deployed in AWS GovCloud regions
    arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}

    # Use this format for arm64-based Lambda deployed in AWS GovCloud regions
    arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
    ```

    Replace `<AWS_REGION>` with a valid AWS region, such as `us-east-1`.

3. Configure your Lambda functions

    - Set your function's handler to `/opt/nodejs/node_modules/datadog-lambda-js/handler.handler` if using the layer, or `node_modules/datadog-lambda-js/dist/handler.handler` if using the package.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_LAMBDA_HANDLER` to your original handler, for example, `myfunc.handler`.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_SITE` with your [Datadog site][2] to send the telemetry to.
    - Set the environment variable `DD_API_KEY_SECRET_ARN` with the ARN of the AWS secret where your [Datadog API key][3] is securely stored. The key needs to be stored as a plaintext string, instead of being inside a json blob. The `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission is required. For quick testings, you can use `DD_API_KEY` instead and set the Datadog API key in plaintext.

[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-layers.html
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## What's next?

- Congratulations! You can now view metrics, logs, and traces on the [Serverless Homepage][1].
- See the sample code to [monitor custom business logic](#monitor-custom-business-logic)
- See the [troubleshooting guide][2] if you have trouble collecting the telemetry
- See the [advanced configurations][3] to
    - connect your telemetry using tags
    - collect telemetry for AWS API Gateway, SQS, etc.
    - capture the Lambda request and response payloads
    - link errors of your Lambda functions to your source code
    - filter or scrub sensitive information from logs or traces

### Monitor custom business logic

To monitor your custom business logic, submit a custom metric or span using the sample code below. For additional options, see [custom metric submission for serverless applications][4] and the APM guide for [custom instrumentation][5].

```javascript
const { sendDistributionMetric, sendDistributionMetricWithDate } = require('datadog-lambda-js');
const tracer = require('dd-trace');

// submit a custom span named "sleep"
const sleep = tracer.wrap('sleep', (ms) => {
    return new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, ms));
});

exports.handler = async (event) => {
    // add custom tags to the lambda function span,
    // does NOT work when X-Ray tracing is enabled
    const span = tracer.scope().active();
    span.setTag('customer_id', '123456');

    await sleep(100);

    // submit a custom span
    const sandwich = tracer.trace('hello.world', () => {
        console.log('Hello, World!');
    });

    // submit a custom metric
    sendDistributionMetric(
        'coffee_house.order_value', // metric name
        12.45, // metric value
        'product:latte', // tag
        'order:online' // another tag
    );

    const response = {
        statusCode: 200,
        body: JSON.stringify('Hello from serverless!')
    };
    return response;
};
```

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/functions
[2]: /serverless/guide/troubleshoot_serverless_monitoring/
[3]: /serverless/configuration/
[4]: /serverless/custom_metrics?tab=nodejs
[5]: /tracing/custom_instrumentation/nodejs/
