content/en/developers/service_checks/_index.md, before:

---
title: Service Check
kind: documentation
aliases:
    - /developers/faq/how-can-i-submit-a-custom-status-check
    - /developers/service_checks/visualize-your-service-check-in-the-datadog-ui
    - /guides/services_checks/
    - /monitors/guide/visualize-your-service-check-in-the-datadog-ui
---

## Overview

Services Checks allow you to characterize the status of a service in order to monitor it within Datadog. All status checks must have one of the following status codes:

| Status Code | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| `0`         | OK          |
| `1`         | Warning     |
| `2`         | Critical    |
| `3`         | Unknown     |

{{< whatsnext desc="Find below how to submit a Service Check to Datadog:">}}
    {{< nextlink href="/developers/service_checks/agent_service_checks_submission" >}}Submit a custom Agent Check.{{< /nextlink >}}
    {{< nextlink href="/developers/service_checks/dogstatsd_service_checks_submission" >}}Submit a Service Check with DogStatsD.{{< /nextlink >}}
    {{< nextlink href="/api/v1/service-checks/" >}}Submit a Service Check through Datadog API.{{< /nextlink >}}
{{< /whatsnext >}}

## Visualize your service check in Datadog

Service checks can be visualized and used in 3 Datadog sections:

- [Check Summary][1]
- [Screenboards][2]
- [Custom check Monitor][3]

### Check summary

Click on the _Monitors_ tab, and then on _Check Summary_ to see the [Check Summary][1] page.

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_summary.png" alt="Check summary"  >}}

This is a list of all your checks and their statuses, reporting across your infrastructure in the past day. Select a check to get insights on the number of distinct checks for each of its associated tags.

### Screenboards

You can visualize service checks with a _Check status_ widget in a screenboard:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_status_widget.png" alt="Check status widget"  >}}

After clicking on the _Check status_ widget icon, the following pop-up appears:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_widget_config.png" alt="Check widget config"  >}}

In this form, you can:

- **Check Name**: Select your service check name.
- **Reporting Timeframe**: Select the time frame on which you want to aggregate your status.
- **Scoping**: Select a single check or a cluster of check statuses reported by a single tag value or a tag key.
- **Widget Title**: Set your widget title.

## Custom check monitor

Even if you can't graph a custom check over time as you would for metrics, you can still monitor it.
Go to _monitor tab_ > _new monitor_, then select the **custom check** section:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_monitor.png" alt="Check monitor"  >}}

Configure your custom check monitor:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_monitor_config.png" alt="Check monitor configuration"  >}}

In this form, you can:

- **Pick a custom check**: Select your check status name to monitor.
- **Pick monitor scope**: Select the context for your monitor (including/excluding tags).
- **Set alert conditions**: Choose between a simple check alert or a cluster alert.
- **Say what's happening**: Edit the notifications sent (find more about [Datadog notifications][4]).
- **Notify your team**: Choose who this monitor should notify.

Service check monitors for out-of-the-box Datadog integrations can be set in the _monitor tab_ > _Integration_ > _Integration status_ tab on the left. For instance, with the HAProxy integration:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/haproxy_service_check.mp4" alt="Haproxy Service Check" video="true"  >}}

Learn how to write an integration with the [integration developer documentation][5].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/check/summary
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/dashboard
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/monitors#create/custom
[4]: /monitors/notifications/
[5]: /developers/integrations/

Commit message:

Reorging the Developer section and adding custom check and service check info

content/en/developers/service_checks/_index.md, after:

---
title: Service Check
kind: documentation
aliases:
    - /developers/faq/how-can-i-submit-a-custom-status-check
    - /developers/service_checks/visualize-your-service-check-in-the-datadog-ui
    - /guides/services_checks/
    - /monitors/guide/visualize-your-service-check-in-the-datadog-ui
---

## Overview

Services checks allow you to characterize the status of a service to monitor it within Datadog. Service checks monitor the up or down status of the specific service. You are alerted whenever the monitoring Agent fails to connect to that service in a specified number of consecutive checks. For example, you can get an alert any time the monitoring Agent on a Redis host reports three consecutive failed attempts to connect to Redis and collect metrics.

Service checks at the cluster level offer another effective way to monitor distributed or redundant systems that can withstand some failures. Use these alerts for architectures where individual hosts run multiple services, because they can surface the degradation of the service even if the hosts running that service remain available (and would pass a host-level health check).

You can set up monitoring and an alert for when a critical, non-redundant service is lost, or if a cluster is on the verge of failure due to widespread node loss. Other critiacl alerts could be a drop in request throughput or an increase in request latency.

You might need to set up a service check if an integration does not have one natively or for an internal service that you want to see up or down status.

To use service checks, first set up the check:

{{< whatsnext >}}
    {{< nextlink href="/developers/service_checks/agent_service_checks_submission" >}}Submit a custom Agent Check.{{< /nextlink >}}
    {{< nextlink href="/developers/service_checks/dogstatsd_service_checks_submission" >}}Submit a Service Check with DogStatsD.{{< /nextlink >}}
    {{< nextlink href="/api/v1/service-checks/" >}}Submit a Service Check through Datadog API.{{< /nextlink >}}
{{< /whatsnext >}}

Once the service check is sending data, check out your check summary and set up dashboards, monitors, and alerts:

## Visualize your service check in Datadog

Service checks can be visualized and used in 3 Datadog sections:

- [Check Summary][1]
- [Screenboards][2]
- [Custom check Monitor][3]

### Check summary

Click on the _Monitors_ tab, and then on _Check Summary_ to see the [Check Summary][1] page.

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_summary.png" alt="Check summary"  >}}

This is a list of all your checks and their statuses, reporting across your infrastructure in the past day. Select a check to get insights on the number of distinct checks for each of its associated tags.

### Screenboards

You can visualize service checks with a _Check status_ widget in a screenboard:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_status_widget.png" alt="Check status widget"  >}}

After clicking on the _Check status_ widget icon, the following pop-up appears:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_widget_config.png" alt="Check widget config"  >}}

In this form, you can:

- **Check Name**: Select your service check name.
- **Reporting Timeframe**: Select the time frame on which you want to aggregate your status.
- **Scoping**: Select a single check or a cluster of check statuses reported by a single tag value or a tag key.
- **Widget Title**: Set your widget title.

## Custom check monitor

Even if you can't graph a custom check over time as you would for metrics, you can still monitor it.
Go to _monitor tab_ > _new monitor_, then select the **custom check** section:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_monitor.png" alt="Check monitor"  >}}

Configure your custom check monitor:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/check_monitor_config.png" alt="Check monitor configuration"  >}}

In this form, you can:

- **Pick a custom check**: Select your check status name to monitor.
- **Pick monitor scope**: Select the context for your monitor (including/excluding tags).
- **Set alert conditions**: Choose between a simple check alert or a cluster alert.
- **Say what's happening**: Edit the notifications sent (find more about [Datadog notifications][4]).
- **Notify your team**: Choose who this monitor should notify.

Service check monitors for out-of-the-box Datadog integrations can be set in the _monitor tab_ > _Integration_ > _Integration status_ tab on the left. For instance, with the HAProxy integration:

{{< img src="developers/service_checks/haproxy_service_check.mp4" alt="Haproxy Service Check" video="true"  >}}

Learn how to write an integration with the [integration developer documentation][5].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/check/summary
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/dashboard
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/monitors#create/custom
[4]: /monitors/notifications/
[5]: /developers/integrations/
