---
title: Datadog Resource Catalog
kind: documentation
beta: true
private: true
further_reading:
- link: "/security_platform/cspm/custom_rules/schema/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cloud Resource Schema"
---

**Should we include a screenshot or video here? The only caveat is that I've had challenges with getting the Resource Catalog to work consistently (I often have to refresh the page to get it to display correctly).**

## Overview

Datadog Resource Catalog is a centralized place to access important information about all host and cloud infrastructure in your organization. See what team is responsible for each resource, and what security findings have been found. Access dashboards and Datadog views that receive and monitor telemetry and security data for each resource.

Compared to the Infrastructure List, the Resource Catalog includes cloud resources crawled from cloud provider APIs, such as AWS, Azure, and GCP.

**Note**: In order for cloud resources to appear in the Resource Catalog, you must first enable Cloud Security Posture Management for each cloud provider.

The Resource Catalog is useful for:

- Training new site reliability and security engineers by providing a clear view of all resources, their relationships, and their security findings, along with information about teams responsible for them and services running on them.
- Speeding incident recovery by increasing confidence and simplifying locating owners of upstream and downstream resources.
- Detecting which resources aren't reporting security findings so that you can rectify the oversight.
- Facilitating the practice of good tagging to optimize cross-telemetry insights.
- Providing engineering leadership with a high-level view of security practices across teams and services.
- Spotting issues like ....

## Browse the Resource Catalog

On the [Resource Catalog page][1], see the list of cloud resources in your Datadog organization which are .... either detected from an Agent on a host, or from configuring a cloud integration on the resource.. To find a particular service, search by its name. To filter the list, select one or more facets. You may find it helpful to filter by your team name or scope the findings displayed to particular environments and clusters in order to see only matching services in the list.

The Service Catalog list is sortable by service type, service name, and many of the other columns. You can find missing ownership by sorting by team in the Ownership view and looking for blanks. Or you can sort by urgency in the Reliability view and see services with the most triggered monitors.

The Resource Catalog list is sortable by cloud platform, resource type, and many of the other columns. You can find resources with critical detection rules by sorting by the **Findings** column. Or you can sort by the **Threats** column to see resources with the 

..., and many of the other columns. You can find missing ownership by sorting by team in the Ownership view and looking for blanks. Or you can sort by urgency in the Reliability view and see resources with the most triggered monitors.

## Investigate a resource

Clicking on a resource opens a side panel with details including:

- The security rules associated with the resource.
- A list of tags associated with the resource.
- **Resource information** including the resource type, name, account, and tags associated with the resource.
- **Security findings** including 
- **Real-time threat signals** generated by the asset and detected by Cloud Workload Security.
- **Resource definition** in JSON that shows the full configuration of the asset from the Cloud Provider APIs.
- An interactive resource map displaying the assets connected to the resource.

**See Security Signals Explorer for UI breakdown (focus on tab callouts and explanatory information)**

Click the **Share** button and select **Share Findings** to share a link to the current resource with your teammates through email, Slack, and more. See all of the [Datadog notification integrations][4] available for this feature.

## Resource definitions

A resource is .... Datadog [Unified Service Tagging][4], provides a standard way to manage and monitor resources consistently across multiple telemetry types including ...

## Registering a new resource

...

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/infrastructure/catalog
[2]: /account_management/rbac/
[3]: /account_management/rbac/permissions/
[4]: /integrations/#cat-notification