---
title: Unified Service Tagging
kind: documentation
aliases:
- /getting_started/tagging/unified_service_tagging
further_reading:
- link: "/tagging/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Getting started with tags"
- link: "/tagging/assigning_tags/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to assign tags"
---

## Overview
Unified service tagging ties Datadog telemetry together through the use of three standard tags: `env`, `service`, and `version`. These tags unify services to… [TK - benefits here]

With unified service tagging, you can correlate related logs and traces by version of a service, trace a spike in CPU usage to corresponding areas of a service, and organize infrastructure more effectively.

[GIF of workflow]

## Requirements

[Bulleted list of versions for the agent, various clients - maybe a dropdown that allows readers to select only what they use?]

## Configuration

### Containerized environment

In containerized environments, the agent utilizes [Autodiscovery] to tag `env`, `service`, and `version` from standard labels and environment variables. Since the agent associates data collected with specific containers, the configuration for the standard tags is entirely within metadata attached to the containers themselves.

Additionally, the autodiscovered tags for `env`, `service`, and `version` are added to all data generated by [integration or logs checks]. You will not need to add these tags to each check's configuration.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

## Pod-level metrics
To achieve a single point of configuration across all telemetry, add the following standard labels (tags.datadoghq.com) to the pod spec of a Deployment, StatefulSet, or Job to cover pod-level Kubernetes CPU/Memory/Disk metrics:

```yaml
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        tags.datadoghq.com/env: <ENV>
        tags.datadoghq.com/service: <SERVICE>
        tags.datadoghq.com/version: <VERSION>
```

If you have multiple containers per pod, you can specify standard labels by container:

```yaml
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.env
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.service
tags.datadoghq.com/<container-name>.version
```

## State metrics

For [Kubernetes State Metrics], add the same standard labels to the collection of labels for the parent resource (e.g., Deployment).

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    tags.datadoghq.com/env: <ENV>
    tags.datadoghq.com/service: <SERVICE>
    tags.datadoghq.com/version: <VERSION>
spec:
  <Block from above>
```

## APM Tracer / Statsd client

[APM Tracer] and [statsd client] environment variables can be sourced from the same labels by using the [Kubernetes's downward API] in the format below:

```yaml
    containers:
    -  ...
       env:
            - name: DD_ENV
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/env']
            - name: DD_SERVICE
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/service']
            - name: DD_VERSION
              valueFrom:
                fieldRef:
                  fieldPath: metadata.labels['tags.datadoghq.com/version']
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Docker" %}}
To achieve a single point of configuration across all telemetry, make DD_ENV, DD_SERVICE, and DD_VERSION available within your container's runtime environment. [As long as the agent can access your container's Docker socket], it will be able to detect the environment variables and map them to the standard tags.

If your service has no need for the DD environment variables (e.g., 3rd party software like Redis, PostgreSQL, Nginx, and applications not traced by APM), you can instead use Docker labels:

```yaml
  LABEL com.datadoghq.tags.env="<ENV>"
  LABEL com.datadoghq.tags.service="<SERVICE>"
  LABEL com.datadoghq.tags.version="<VERSION>"
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "ECS" %}}

To achieve a single point of configuration across all telemetry, make DD_ENV, DD_SERVICE, and DD_VERSION available within your container's runtime environment. These variables can be set in the Docker image itself or in the ECS task's definition:

```yaml
        "environment": [
          {
            "name": "DD_ENV",
            "value": "<ENV>"
          },
          {
            "name": "DD_SERVICE",
            "value": "<SERVICE>"
          },
          {
            "name": "DD_VERSION",
            "value": "<VERSION>"
          }
        ]
```

If there are containers that will not benefit from using the environment variables in the application runtime, you can instead use Docker labels:

```yaml
        "dockerLabels": {
          "com.datadoghq.tags.env": "<ENV>",
          "com.datadoghq.tags.service": "<SERVICE>",
          "com.datadoghq.tags.version": "<VERSION>"
        }
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
