content/en/observability_pipelines/configuration/update_existing_pipelines.md, before:

---
title: Update Existing Pipelines
disable_toc: false
aliases:
  - /observability_pipelines/update_existing_pipelines/
---

## Overview

For existing pipelines in Observability Pipelines, you can update and deploy changes for source settings, destination settings, and processors in the Observability Pipelines UI. But if you want to update source and destination environment variables, you need to manually update the Worker with the new values.

This document goes through updating the pipeline in the UI. You can also use the [update a pipeline][2] API or [datadog_observability_pipeline][3] Terraform resource to update existing pipelines.

## Update an existing pipeline

1. Navigate to [Observability Pipelines][1].
1. Select the pipeline you want to update.
1. Click **Edit Pipeline** in the top right corner.
1. Make changes to the pipeline.
	- If you are updating the source or destination settings shown in the tiles, or updating and adding processors, make the changes and then click **Deploy Changes**.
	- To update source or destination environment variables, click **Go to Worker Installation Steps** and see [Update source or destination variables](#update-source-or-destination-variables) for instructions.

### Update source or destination variables

On the Worker installation page:
1. Select your platform in the **Choose your installation platform** dropdown menu.
1. If you want to update source environment variables, update the information for your data source.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Amazon Data Firehose" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/amazon_data_firehose %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon S3" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/amazon_s3 %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog Agent" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/datadog_agent %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Fluent" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/fluent %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google Pub/Sub" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/google_pubsub %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HTTP Client" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/http_client %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HTTP Server" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/http_server %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kafka" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/kafka %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Logstash" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/logstash %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Socket" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/socket %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk HEC" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk TCP" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/splunk_tcp %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sumo Logic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/sumo_logic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Syslog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/syslog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
1. If you want to update destination environment variables, update the information for your data destination.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Amazon OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/amazon_opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon Security Lake" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/amazon_security_lake %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "CrowdStrike NG-SIEM" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/crowdstrike_ng_siem %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog Archives" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog_archives_amazon_s3 %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog_archives_google_cloud_storage %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog_archives_azure_storage %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Elasticsearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/elasticsearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google SecOps" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/chronicle %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HTTP Client" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/http_client %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Microsoft Sentinel" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/microsoft_sentinel %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "New Relic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/new_relic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "SentinelOne" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/sentinelone %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Socket" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/socket %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk HEC" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sumo Logic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/sumo_logic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Syslog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/syslog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

1. Follow the instructions for your environment to update the worker:
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/docker %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/kubernetes %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Linux (APT)" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/linux_apt %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Linux (RPM)" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/linux_rpm %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "CloudFormation" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/cloudformation %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines
[2]: /api/latest/observability-pipelines/#update-a-pipeline
[3]: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/DataDog/datadog/latest/docs/resources/observability_pipeline

Commit message:

[DOCS-12091] Update existing pipelines (#33815)
* updates

* add restart

* small edits

content/en/observability_pipelines/configuration/update_existing_pipelines.md, after:

---
title: Update Existing Pipelines
disable_toc: false
aliases:
  - /observability_pipelines/update_existing_pipelines/
---

## Overview

For existing pipelines in Observability Pipelines, you can update and deploy changes for source settings, destination settings, and processors in the Observability Pipelines UI. But if you are using environment variables and want to update source and destination environment variables, you must manually update the Worker with the new values.

This document goes through updating the pipeline in the UI. You can also use the [update a pipeline][2] API or [datadog_observability_pipeline][3] Terraform resource to update existing pipelines.

## Update an existing pipeline

1. Navigate to [Observability Pipelines][1].
1. Select the pipeline you want to update.
1. Click **Edit Pipeline** in the top right corner.
1. Make changes to the pipeline.
	- If you are updating the source or destination settings shown in the tiles, or updating and adding processors, make the changes and then click **Deploy Changes**.
	- To update source or destination environment variables, click **Go to Worker Installation Steps** and see [Update source or destination environment variables](#update-source-or-destination-environment-variables) for instructions.
1. If you updated secret identifiers or environment variables, restart the Worker.

### Update source or destination environment variables

On the Worker installation page:
1. Select your platform in the **Choose your installation platform** dropdown menu.
1. If you want to update source environment variables, update the information for your data source.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Amazon Data Firehose" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/amazon_data_firehose %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon S3" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/amazon_s3 %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog Agent" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/datadog_agent %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Fluent" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/fluent %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google Pub/Sub" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/google_pubsub %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HTTP Client" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/http_client %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HTTP Server" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/http_server %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kafka" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/kafka %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Logstash" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/logstash %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Socket" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/socket %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk HEC" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk TCP" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/splunk_tcp %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sumo Logic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/sumo_logic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Syslog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/source_env_vars/syslog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
1. If you want to update destination environment variables, update the information for your data destination.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Amazon OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/amazon_opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon Security Lake" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/amazon_security_lake %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "CrowdStrike NG-SIEM" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/crowdstrike_ng_siem %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog Archives" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog_archives_amazon_s3 %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog_archives_google_cloud_storage %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog_archives_azure_storage %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Elasticsearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/elasticsearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google SecOps" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/chronicle %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "HTTP Client" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/http_client %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Microsoft Sentinel" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/microsoft_sentinel %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "New Relic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/new_relic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "SentinelOne" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/sentinelone %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Socket" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/socket %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk HEC" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sumo Logic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/sumo_logic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Syslog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/destination_env_vars/syslog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

1. Follow the instructions for your environment to update the worker:
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/docker %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/kubernetes %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Linux (APT)" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/linux_apt %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Linux (RPM)" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/linux_rpm %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "CloudFormation" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/configure_existing_pipelines/install_worker/cloudformation %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines
[2]: /api/latest/observability-pipelines/#update-a-pipeline
[3]: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/DataDog/datadog/latest/docs/resources/observability_pipeline
