---
title: Runtime Anomaly Detection
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/security/cloud_workload_security/setup"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Setting Up CWS"
- link: "/security/cloud_workload_security/security_profiles"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "CWS Security Profiles"
---

Runtime Anomaly Detection provides out of the box detection of unusual behavior on your _containerized_ workloads, using a model based on [CWS Security Profiles][5].


## Prerequisites

- Datadog Agent 7.47 or later.
- [CWS enabled][1].
- Runtime Anomaly Detection enabled: review [CWS setup instructions][2] to learn how to enable it.

## Overview


## Algorithm


## Inspect an Anomaly Signal


todo: add screenshot


## Notifications

Notifications can be used to alert you via slack or email when anomaly signals are generated. They can also be used to trigger webhooks or Datadog Workflows, enabling automated remediation pipelines. This is done with [security notification rules][3]. To specifically target anomaly signals in a notification rule, use the rule criteria `rule_id:anomaly_detection`.

## Audit Trail for Anomaly Signals Actions

As an administrator or security team member, you can use [Datadog Audit Trail][4] to see what actions your team is taking within the Cloud Security Product. As an individual, you can see a stream of your own actions.  Audit trails for security signals are provided without additional configuration.

Navigate to Organization Settings and select Audit Trail under Compliance.

To exclusively show Audit Logs generated by actions taken in Cloud Security Management:
- use the following query: `@evt.name:"Cloud Security Platform"`
- or select the “Cloud Security Platform” facet under the “Event Name” facet.

To exclusively show Audit Logs generated by actions taken on security signals:
- use the following query: `@asset.type:security_signal`
- or select the “security_signal” facet under the “Asset Type” facet.

## Further Reading
{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /security/cloud_workload_security/setup
[2]: /security/cloud_workload_security/setup?tab=kuberneteshelm#configure-the-cws-agent
[3]: /security/notifications/rules/
[4]: /account_management/audit_trail/#overview
[5]: /security/cloud_workload_security/security_profiles
