---
title: Flutter Crash Reporting and Error Tracking
description: "Enable comprehensive crash reporting and error tracking for Flutter applications to monitor and resolve issues across platforms."
aliases:
- /real_user_monitoring/mobile_and_tv_monitoring/flutter/error_tracking
---

## Overview

Enable Crash Reporting and Error Tracking to get comprehensive crash reports and error trends with Real User Monitoring.

Your crash reports appear in [**Error Tracking**][1].

## Setup

If you have not set up the Datadog Flutter SDK for RUM yet, follow the [in-app setup instructions][2] or see the [Flutter setup documentation][3].

### Add native crash reporting

Update your initialization snippet to enable native crash reporting for iOS and Android by setting `nativeCrashReportEnabled` to `true`.

For example:

```dart
final configuration = DdSdkConfiguration(
  clientToken: 'DD_CLIENT_TOKEN'
  env: 'DD_ENV'
  site: DatadogSite.us1,
  trackingConsent: TrackingConsent.granted,
  nativeCrashReportEnabled: true, // Set this flag
  loggingConfiguration: LoggingConfiguration(),
  rumConfiguration: 'DD_APP_ID',
);
DatadogSdk.instance.initialize(configuration);
```

If your application suffers a fatal crash, once your application restarts, the Datadog Flutter SDK uploads a crash report to Datadog. For non-fatal errors, the Datadog Flutter SDK uploads these errors with other RUM data.


## Upload symbol files to Datadog

Native iOS crash reports are collected in a raw format and mostly contain memory addresses. To map these addresses into legible symbol information, Datadog requires that you upload .dSYM files, which are generated in your application's build process.

For all crash reports that are built with the `--split-debug-info` option set and/or with the `--obfuscate` option set, you need to upload their Android Proguard mapping file and Dart symbol files generated by the Flutter build process.


The [@datadog/datadog-ci][4] command line tool supports uploading all of the necessary files (dSYMs, Android Proguard Mapping, and Dart Symbol Files) in one command.

First, install the `datadog-ci` tool from the instructions above and create a `datadog-ci.json` file at the root of your project, containing your API key and (optionally) your Datadog site:
```json
{
  "apiKey": "<YOUR_DATADOG_API_KEY>",
  "datadogSite": "datadoghq.eu"  // Optional if you are using datadoghq.com
}
```

Because this file contains your API key, it should not be checked in to version control.

Alternately, you can set the `DATADOG_API_KEY` and `DATADOG_SITE` environment variables.

Then, you can use the following command to upload all the necessary files for symbolication and deobfuscation of your crash reports:
```sh
datadog-ci flutter-symbols upload --service-name <YOUR_SERVICE_NAME> --dart-symbols-location <LOCATION_OF_DART_SYMBOLS> --android-mapping --ios-dsyms
```

For a full list of options, see the `datadog-ci` [Flutter Symbols documentation][6].

## Advanced configuration - flavors and build numbers

Datadog uses the combination of the `service-name`, `version`, and `flavor` to locate the correct symbols for deobfuscation, so the parameters sent to the `datadog-ci` command and the parameters set in [DdSdkConfiguration][7]

If you are using app [flavors][8] in Flutter, you will need to set the name of the flavor in [DdSdkConfiguration.flavor][9] since we cannot detect the flavor automatically. You can then pass this to the `--flavor` parameter of the `datadog-ci` command:

```sh
datadog-ci flutter-symbols upload --service-name <YOUR_SERVICE_NAME> --dart-symbols-location <LOCATION_OF_DART_SYMBOLS> --android-mapping --ios-dsyms --flavor my_flavor
```

The Datadog SDK automatically detects the version number of your application specified in your `pubspec.yaml` up to but not including the build number. If you are using build numbers as part of the version in your application and need to upload symbols for each build, you need to add the version to [DdSdkConfiguration.version][10]. You can then pass this to the `--version` parameter of the `datadog-ci` command:

```sh
datadog-ci flutter-symbols upload --service-name <YOUR_SERVICE_NAME> --dart-symbols-location <LOCATION_OF_DART_SYMBOLS> --android-mapping --ios-dsyms --version 1.2.3+22
```

Note that Datadog uses tags for versions which do not allow `+`. All tooling automatically replaces `+` with `-` so that the version tags are searchable in Datadog.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/error-tracking
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/application/create
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/real_user_monitoring/flutter/#setup
[4]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/@datadog/datadog-ci
[6]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/tree/master/packages/datadog-ci/src/commands/flutter-symbols
[7]: https://pub.dev/documentation/datadog_flutter_plugin/latest/datadog_flutter_plugin/DatadogConfiguration-class.html
[8]: https://docs.flutter.dev/deployment/flavors
[9]: https://pub.dev/documentation/datadog_flutter_plugin/latest/datadog_flutter_plugin/DatadogConfiguration/flavor.html
[10]: https://pub.dev/documentation/datadog_flutter_plugin/latest/datadog_flutter_plugin/DatadogConfiguration/version.html
