---
title: Pricing
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/pricing"
  tag: "Pricing"
  text: "Datadog Pricing"
---

Datadog has many pricing plans to fit your needs. For more information, see the [Pricing][1] page. Unless otherwise stated in your order, Datadog calculates fees based on product usage during each calendar month. Here are the most common pricing units:

## Infrastructure monitoring

* A **host** is a physical or virtual operating system instance. Each hour, Datadog records the number of unique hosts you are monitoring in the Infrastructure service.
  * On a high watermark plan (HWMP), these hourly measurements are ordered from highest to lowest at the end of the month, and Datadog charges based on the eighth highest measurement.
  * On a hybrid monthly/hourly plan (MHP), Datadog charges your minimum monthly commitment, and for any host hours above that commitment, Datadog charges an hourly rate.
* A **container** is a self-contained operating environment that includes application software and limited operating system libraries and settings. Once every five minutes, Datadog records the number of unique containers you are monitoring in the Datadog Infrastructure service. Datadog charges monthly based on the fractional hours of monitored containers.
* A [**custom metric**][2] is a single, unique combination of a metric name, host ID and any tags. Datadog charges based on the monthly average of unique custom metrics submitted to the Datadog Infrastructure service per hour.
* A **device** is a physical sensor comprising one or more single-board computers in a frame. Datadog records and charges for the number of devices and hosts you are concurrently monitoring in the Datadog Infrastructure service.
* A **serverless function** is application code setup to execute on a cloud platform’s serverless compute service in response to defined events or actions (for example, AWS Lambda, Google Cloud Function, and Azure Function). Datadog charges based on the total number of Lambda function invocations in a month.
* An AWS **Fargate task** is a collection of containers setup through AWS’s ECS container orchestration platform. Datadog records the number of task instances you are monitoring in the Datadog Infrastructure (or APM) service at five-minute intervals. Datadog aggregates the interval-based measurements at the end of the month and charges you based on the total number of hours your applications were run and monitored.

## APM

* If an application running on a host (defined in [Infrastructure monitoring](#infrastructure-monitoring)) generates traces and submits them to the Datadog SaaS application, Datadog counts that host as one **APM host**.
  * On a high watermark plan (HWMP), the hourly measurements are ordered from highest to lowest at the end of the month, and Datadog charges based on the eighth highest measurement.
  * On a hybrid monthly/hourly plan (MHP), Datadog charges your minimum monthly commitment, and for any host hours above that commitment, Datadog charges an hourly rate.
* An **Indexed Span** is an individual request against an individual service in your stack. Datadog charges based on the total number of spans indexed by [retention filters][3] within Datadog APM.
* An **Ingested Span** is an individual request against an individual service in your stack. Datadog charges based on the total number of gigabytes of spans ingested into Datadog APM.

You can put controls in place for both Indexed and Ingested span volumes. For more information, read the [Trace Ingestion][4] and [Retention][5] documentation.

## Database Monitoring

* Datadog records the number of unique database hosts you are monitoring with Datadog Database Monitoring each hour.
  * On a high watermark plan (HWMP), these hourly measurements are ordered from highest to lowest at the end of the month, and Datadog charges based on the eighth highest measurement.
  * On a hybrid monthly/hourly plan (MHP), Datadog charges your minimum monthly commitment, and for any host hours above that commitment, Datadog charges an hourly rate.
* Datadog charges based on the total number of configured [normalized queries][6] being tracked at any given time.

## Log management

* A **log** is a text-based record of activity generated by an operating system, an application, or by other sources. Datadog charges for ingested logs based on the total number of gigabytes submitted to the Datadog Logs service.
* A **log event** is a log that is indexed by the Datadog Logs service. Datadog charges per million log events submitted for indexing at the rate designated for the retention policy you selected.

## Cloud SIEM

* An **analyzed log** is a text-based record of activity generated by an operating system, an application, or by other sources analyzed to detect potential security threats. Datadog charges for analyzed logs based on the total number of gigabytes ingested and analyzed by the Datadog Cloud SIEM service.

## Synthetic monitoring

* An **API test** is an HTTP or HTTPS request against a single URL. Datadog charges per ten thousand API tests runs executed to the Datadog Synthetic Monitoring service.
* A **browser test** is a simulation of a scripted sequence of user actions on a web-based application using a virtualized web browser. Datadog charges per thousand browser tests executed to the Datadog Synthetic Monitoring
 service.

## Network Performance Monitoring

* Datadog records the number of **Network Performance Monitoring** (NPM) hosts you are concurrently monitoring with the Datadog NPM service once per hour.
  * These hourly measurements are ordered from highest to lowest at the end of the month, and Datadog charges based on the eighth-highest measurement.
* Additionally, Datadog measures the total number of flows used by all NPM hosts per month. A **flow** is a record of traffic sent and received between a source (IP:Port) and destination (IP:Port), as measured over a five-minute time period.

## Real User Monitoring

* A **session** is a user journey on your web application. It expires after either 15 minutes of inactivity, or 4 hours of continuous activity.

* Datadog collects all the pages visited by your end users along with the telemetry that matters: resources loading (XHRs, images, CSS files, JS scripts, etc), frontend errors, and long tasks. All of this is included in the user session. Datadog charges per one thousand (1,000) sessions ingested in the Datadog Real User Monitoring (RUM) service.

## Continuous Profiler

* Datadog records the number of unique Continuous Profiler hosts you are concurrently monitoring with the Datadog Continuous Profiler service once per hour.
  * These hourly measurements are ordered from highest to lowest at the end of the month, and Datadog charges based on the ninth-highest measurement (eighth-highest only in February).
  * Each host is allowed up to four profiled containers for free. Containers over this are priced at $2 per container.
    **Note**: This allotment is aggregated across all hosts so if you have four containers on average across all your hosts, you are not charged as if you have more on a host-by-host basis.
* Datadog measures the total number of containers that are being profiled. A container is a self-contained operating environment that includes application software and limited operating system libraries and settings. Once every five minutes, Datadog records the number of unique containers you are monitoring in the Datadog Continuous Profiler service. Datadog charges monthly based on the fractional hours of monitored containers. For Continuous Profiler, Datadog only counts the containers that are running the Continuous Profiler service towards the total monitored container count.

## Incident Management

* Datadog tracks the number of monthly active users who participate in incident management and response.
 * An **active user** is only counted if they contribute comments or signals (graphs, links, etc.) to an incident. Anyone who only opens or closes an incident or anyone who only views the incident are not counted. Additionally, these are not named seats, so you do not need to determine which specific users have access.

## CI Visibility

* Datadog tracks the number of unique committers who send test and pipeline data to the CI Visibility service.
* A **committer** means an active git committer, identified by their git author email address. A committer is counted towards billing if they commit at least three times in a given month.
  * In the event that a pipeline is not associated with a git repository, or git metadata is unavailable, the username of the person triggering the pipeline execution is used as the billable committer.
* For Pipeline Visibility, every pipeline, pipeline stage, and pipeline job counts as a **pipeline span**. For Testing Visibility, every individual test run counts as a **test span**.

## Troubleshooting

For technical questions, contact [Datadog support][7].

Contact [Sales][8] or your [Customer Success][9] Manager to discuss hourly pricing or billing for your account.

[1]: https://www.datadoghq.com/pricing
[2]: /metrics/custom_metrics/
[3]: /tracing/trace_pipeline/trace_retention/#retention-filters
[4]: /tracing/trace_pipeline/ingestion_controls/
[5]: /tracing/trace_pipeline/trace_retention/
[6]: /database_monitoring/data_collected/#normalized-queries
[7]: /help/
[8]: mailto:sales@datadoghq.com
[9]: mailto:success@datadoghq.com
