---
title: Exploration and Correlation
description: Learn about how to explore more of your application in LLM Observability.
---

## Overview

Explore and analyze your LLM applications in production with tools for querying, visualizing, correlating, and investigating data across traces, clusters, and beyond.

### Query your LLM Application's Traces and Spans

Learn how to use Datadog's LLM Observability Query interface to search, filter, and analyze traces and spans generated by your LLM applications. The [Querying documentation][1] covers how to:

- Use the search bar to filter traces and spans by attributes such as model, user, or error status.
- Apply advanced filters to focus on specific LLM operations or timeframes.
- Visualize and inspect trace details to troubleshoot and optimize your LLM workflows.

This enables you to quickly identify issues, monitor performance, and gain insights into your LLM application's behavior in production.


### Correlate APM and LLM Observability

You can also correlate applications instrumented by [Correlating APM and LLM Observability][2] through the SDK. Correlating with your broader app with APM enables full end-to-end visibility and seamless drill-downs from app issues into LLM-specific root causes.

### Cluster Map

The [Cluster Map][3] provides a visual overview of how your LLM application's requests are grouped and related. It helps you identify patterns, clusters of similar activity, and outliers in your LLM traces, making it easier to investigate issues and optimize performance.

### Monitor your Agentic Sytems 

Learn how to monitor agentic LLM applications, which use multiple tools or chains of reasoning, with Datadog's Agent Monitoring. This feature helps you track agent actions, tool usage, and reasoning steps, providing visibility into complex LLM workflows and enabling you to troubleshoot and optimize agentic systems effectively. See the [Agent Monitoring documentation][4] for details.


[1]: /llm_observability/monitoring/querying
[2]: /llm_observability/monitoring/llm_observability_and_apm
[3]: /llm_observability/monitoring/cluster_map/
[4]: /llm_observability/monitoring/agent_monitoring