content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling.md, before:

---
title: Enabling the Profiler
kind: Documentation
aliases:
    - /tracing/profiling/getting_started
    - /tracing/profiler/getting_started
further_reading:
    - link: 'getting_started/profiler'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Getting Started with Profiler'
    - link: 'tracing/profiler/search_profiles'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about available profile types'
    - link: 'tracing/profiler/profiler_troubleshooting'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Fix problems you encounter while using the profiler'
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-datadog-profiling/'
      tags: 'Blog'
      text: 'Introducing always-on production profiling in Datadog'
---

Profiler is shipped within the following tracing libraries. Select your language below to learn how to enable profiler for your application:

To get notified when a private beta is available for the **Node**, **PHP**, or **.NET** Profiler, [sign up here][1].

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,python,go,ruby" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

The Datadog Profiler requires [JDK Flight Recorder][1]. The Datadog Profiler library is supported in OpenJDK 11+, Oracle Java 11+, [OpenJDK 8 (version 8u262+)][2] and Zulu Java 8+ (minor version 1.8.0_212+). All JVM-based languages, such as Scala, Groovy, Kotlin, and Clojure are supported. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your Agent to version [7.20.2][3]+ or [6.20.2][4]+. If you don't have APM enabled to set up your application to send data to Datadog, in your Agent, set the `DD_APM_ENABLED` environment variable to `true` and listening to the port `8126/TCP`.

2. Download `dd-java-agent.jar`, which contains the Java Agent class files:

    ```shell
    wget -O dd-java-agent.jar 'https://dtdg.co/latest-java-tracer'
    ```

     **Note**: Profiler is available in the `dd-java-agent.jar` library in versions 0.55+.

3. Set `-Ddd.profiling.enabled` flag or `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`. The update to your service invocation should look like:

    ```diff
    java -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar -Ddd.profiling.enabled=true -XX:FlightRecorderOptions=stackdepth=256 -jar <YOUR_SERVICE>.jar <YOUR_SERVICE_FLAGS>
    ```

4. After a minute or two, you can visualize your profiles on the [Datadog APM > Profiling page][5].


**Note**:

- The `-javaagent` argument needs to be before `-jar`, adding it as a JVM option rather than an application argument. For more information, see the [Oracle documentation][6]:

    ```shell
    # Good:
    java -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar ... -jar my-service.jar -more-flags
    # Bad:
    java -jar my-service.jar -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar ...
    ```

- Datadog strongly recommends that you specify the `service` and `version` as this gives you the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions. Use environment variables to set the parameters:

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`                           | Boolean       | Alternate for `-Ddd.profiling.enabled` argument. Set to `true` to enable profiler.               |
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | Your [service][3] name, for example, `web-backend`.     |
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | Your [environment][7] name, for example: `production`.|
| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your service.                             |
| `DD_TAGS`                                        | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api, team:intake`.  |


[1]: https://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc-5-4/jfr-runtime-guide/about.htm
[2]: /tracing/profiler/profiler_troubleshooting/#java-8-support
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings?agent_version=6#agent
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
[6]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/solaris/java.html
[7]: /tracing/guide/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#environment
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="python" >}}

**Requirements**

The Datadog Profiler requires Python 2.7+ and Agent version [7.20.2][1]+ or
[6.20.2][2]+.

The following profiling features are available depending on your Python version:

|      Feature         | Supported Python versions          |
|----------------------|------------------------------------|
| Wall time profiling  | Python >= 2.7                      |
| CPU time profiling   | Python >= 2.7 on POSIX platforms   |
| Exception profiling  | Python >= 3.7 on POSIX platforms   |
| Lock profiling       | Python >= 2.7                      |
| Memory profiling     | Python >= 3.5                      |

**Installation**

Install `ddtrace`, which provides both tracing and profiling functionalities:

```shell
pip install ddtrace
```

**Note**: Profiling requires the `ddtrace` library version 0.40+.

If you are using a platform where `ddtrace` binary distribution is not available, install a development environment.

For example, on Alpine Linux, this can be done with:
```shell
apk install gcc musl-dev linux-headers
```

**Usage**

To automatically profile your code, set the `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` environment variable to `true` when you use `ddtrace-run`:

    DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true \
    DD_ENV=prod \
    DD_SERVICE=my-web-app \
    DD_VERSION=1.0.3 \
    ddtrace-run python app.py

It is strongly recommended that you add tags like `service` or `version`, as they provide the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions. See [Configuration] below.

After a couple of minutes, visualize your profiles on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][3].

If you want to manually control the lifecycle of the profiler, use the `ddtrace.profiling.profiler.Profiler` object:

```python
from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

prof = Profiler(
    env="prod",  # if not specified, falls back to environment variable DD_ENV
    service="my-web-app",  # if not specified, falls back to environment variable DD_SERVICE
    version="1.0.3",   # if not specified, falls back to environment variable DD_VERSION
)
prof.start()
```

**Caveats**

When your process forks using `os.fork`, the profiler is actually stopped in
the child process and needs to be restarted. For Python 3.7+ on Unix platforms,
a new profiler is automatically started.

If you use Python < 3.7, or run on a non-Unix platform, you need to manually
start a new profiler in your child process.

```python
# For ddtrace-run users, call this in your child process
ddtrace.profiling.auto.start_profiler()

# Alternatively, for manual instrumentation,
# create a new profiler in your child process:
from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

prof = Profiler()
prof.start()
```

**Configuration**

You can configure the profiler using the following environment variables:

| Environment Variable    | Keyword Argument to `Profiler` | Type                       | Description                                                         |
| ------------------------|------------------------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`  |                                | Boolean                    | Set to `true` to enable profiler.                                   |
| `DD_PROFILING_HEAP_ENABLED` |                            | Boolean                    | Set to `true` to enable memory heap profiling. (ddtrace 0.50+)      |
| `DD_SERVICE`            | `service`                      | String                     | The Datadog [service][4] name.                                      |
| `DD_ENV`                | `env`                          | String                     | The Datadog [environment][5] name, for example, `production`.       |
| `DD_VERSION`            | `version`                      | String                     | The version of your application.                                    |
| `DD_TAGS`               | `tags`                         | String / Dictionary        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. If set with an environment variable, it must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api,team:intake`. If set with keyword argument, it must be a dictionary where keys are tag names and values are tag values such as:`{"layer": "api", "team": "intake"}`.  |



[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings?agent_version=6#agent
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
[4]: /tracing/visualization/#services
[5]: /tracing/guide/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#environment
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}


The Datadog Profiler requires Go 1.12+. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][1]+ or [6.20.2][2]+.

2. Get `dd-trace-go` using the command:

    ```shell
    go get gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler
    ```

     **Note**: Profiler is available in the `dd-trace-go` library for versions 1.23.0+.

3. Import the [profiler][3] at the start of your application:

    ```Go
    import "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler"
    ```

4. Add the following snippet to start the profiler:

    ```Go
    err := profiler.Start(
        profiler.WithService("<SERVICE_NAME>"),
        profiler.WithEnv("<ENVIRONMENT>"),
        profiler.WithVersion("<APPLICATION_VERSION>"),
        profiler.WithTags("<KEY1>:<VALUE1>,<KEY2>:<VALUE2>"),
        profiler.WithProfileTypes(
          profiler.CPUProfile,
          profiler.HeapProfile,
          // The profiles below are disabled by default to keep overhead
          // low, but can be enabled as needed.

          // profiler.BlockProfile,
          // profiler.MutexProfile,
          // profiler.GoroutineProfile,
        ),
    )
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    defer profiler.Stop()
    ```

4. After a minute or two, visualize your profiles in the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][4].

**Note**:

- By default only the CPU and Heap profile are enabled. Use [profiler.WithProfileTypes][5] to enable additional [profile types][6].

- You can set profiler parameters in code with these functions:

| Function | Type          | Description                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|  WithService     | String        | The Datadog [service][7] name, for example `my-web-app`.             |
|  WithEnv         | String        | The Datadog [environment][8] name, for example, `production`.         |
|  WithVersion     | String        | The version of your application.                                                                             |
|  WithTags        | String        | The tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of in the format `<KEY1>:<VALUE1>,<KEY2>:<VALUE2>`. |

- Alternatively you can set profiler configuration using environment variables:

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | The Datadog [service][7] name.     |
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | The Datadog [environment][8] name, for example, `production`. |
| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your application.                             |
| `DD_TAGS`                                        | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api,team:intake`.   |



[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings?agent_version=6#agent
[3]: https://godoc.org/gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler#pkg-constants
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
[5]: https://pkg.go.dev/gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler#WithProfileTypes
[6]: https://pkg.go.dev/gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler#ProfileType
[7]: /tracing/visualization/#services
[8]: /tracing/guide/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#environment
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Datadog Ruby Profiler is currently in public beta. Datadog recommends evaluating the profiler in a non-sensitive environment before deploying in production.
</div>

The Datadog Profiler requires MRI Ruby 2.1+. **Wall time profiling is available for users on every platform (including macOS and Windows), but CPU time profiles are currently only available on Linux platforms**. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][1]+ or [6.20.2][2]+.

2. Add the `ddtrace` and `google-protobuf` gems to your `Gemfile` or `gems.rb` file:

    ```ruby
    gem 'ddtrace', '>= 0.49.0'
    gem 'google-protobuf', '~> 3.0'
    ```

2. Install the gems with `bundle install`.

3. You can auto-enable the profiler with environment variables:

    ```shell
    export DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true
    export DD_ENV=prod
    export DD_SERVICE=my-web-app
    export DD_VERSION=1.0.3
    ```

    or in code:

    ```ruby
    Datadog.configure do |c|
      c.profiling.enabled = true
      c.env = 'prod'
      c.service = 'my-web-app'
      c.version = '1.0.3'
    end
    ```

    **Note**: For Rails applications you can create a `config/initializers/datadog.rb` file with the code configuration above.


4. Add the `ddtracerb exec` command to your Ruby application start command:

    ```shell
    bundle exec ddtracerb exec ruby myapp.rb
    ```

    Rails example:

    ```shell
    bundle exec ddtracerb exec bin/rails s
    ```

    **Note**

    If starting the application via `ddtracerb exec` is not an option (eg. when using the Phusion Passenger web server), you can alternatively start the profiler by adding the following to your application entry point such as `config.ru` for a web application:

    ```ruby
    require 'ddtrace/profiling/preload'
    ```


4. A minute or two after starting your Ruby application, your profiles will show up on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][3].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings?agent_version=6#agent
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

## Not sure what to do next?

The [Getting Started with Profiler][2] guide takes a sample service with a performance problem and shows you how to use Continuous Profiler to understand and fix the problem.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScb9GKmKfSoY6YNV2Wa5P8IzUn02tA7afCahk7S0XHfakjYQw/viewform
[2]: /getting_started/profiler/

Commit message:

Link documentation on enabling allocation profiler in enabling the profiler (#11059)
* Link documentation on enabling allocation profiler in enabling the profiler

As we are disabling the allocation profiler by default in Java, we want
to make it as clear as possible for users on how to enable it back.

* Update content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling.md

Co-authored-by: ruthnaebeck <19349244+ruthnaebeck@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling.md

Co-authored-by: ruthnaebeck <19349244+ruthnaebeck@users.noreply.github.com>

* Reorder content in tracing/profiler/enabling + Specify JDK version

* Update content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling.md

Co-authored-by: ruthnaebeck <19349244+ruthnaebeck@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling.md

Co-authored-by: Dan Benamy <dbenamydd@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: ruthnaebeck <19349244+ruthnaebeck@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Dan Benamy <dbenamydd@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/tracing/profiler/enabling.md, after:

---
title: Enabling the Profiler
kind: Documentation
aliases:
    - /tracing/profiling/getting_started
    - /tracing/profiler/getting_started
further_reading:
    - link: 'getting_started/profiler'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Getting Started with Profiler'
    - link: 'tracing/profiler/search_profiles'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about available profile types'
    - link: 'tracing/profiler/profiler_troubleshooting'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Fix problems you encounter while using the profiler'
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-datadog-profiling/'
      tags: 'Blog'
      text: 'Introducing always-on production profiling in Datadog'
---

Profiler is shipped within the following tracing libraries. Select your language below to learn how to enable profiler for your application:

To get notified when a private beta is available for the **Node**, **PHP**, or **.NET** Profiler, [sign up here][1].

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="java,python,go,ruby" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

The Datadog Profiler requires [JDK Flight Recorder][1]. The Datadog Profiler library is supported in OpenJDK 11+, Oracle Java 11+, [OpenJDK 8 (version 8u262+)][2] and Zulu Java 8+ (minor version 1.8.0_212+). All JVM-based languages, such as Scala, Groovy, Kotlin, and Clojure are supported. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your Agent to version [7.20.2][3]+ or [6.20.2][4]+. If you don't have APM enabled to set up your application to send data to Datadog, in your Agent, set the `DD_APM_ENABLED` environment variable to `true` and listening to the port `8126/TCP`.

2. Download `dd-java-agent.jar`, which contains the Java Agent class files:

    ```shell
    wget -O dd-java-agent.jar 'https://dtdg.co/latest-java-tracer'
    ```

     **Note**: Profiler is available in the `dd-java-agent.jar` library in versions 0.55+.

3. Set `-Ddd.profiling.enabled` flag or `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`. The update to your service invocation should look like:

    ```diff
    java -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar -Ddd.profiling.enabled=true -XX:FlightRecorderOptions=stackdepth=256 -jar <YOUR_SERVICE>.jar <YOUR_SERVICE_FLAGS>
    ```

4. After a minute or two, you can visualize your profiles on the [Datadog APM > Profiling page][5].


**Note**:

- The `-javaagent` argument needs to be before `-jar`, adding it as a JVM option rather than an application argument. For more information, see the [Oracle documentation][6]:

    ```shell
    # Good:
    java -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar ... -jar my-service.jar -more-flags
    # Bad:
    java -jar my-service.jar -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar ...
    ```

- Datadog strongly recommends that you specify the `service` and `version` as this gives you the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions. Use environment variables to set the parameters:

## Enabling the allocation profiler

In dd-java-agent v0.83.0+ and Java 15 and lower, the allocation profiler is opt-in because it can use excessive CPU in allocation-heavy applications. This isn't common, so you may want to try it in a staging environment to see if it affects your application. To enable it, see [Enabling the allocation profiler][8].

## Environment variables

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`                           | Boolean       | Alternate for `-Ddd.profiling.enabled` argument. Set to `true` to enable profiler.               |
| `DD_PROFILING_ALLOCATION_ENABLED`                | Boolean       | Alternate for `-Ddd.profiling.allocation.enabled` argument. Set to `true` to enable the allocation profiler. It requires the profiler to be enabled already. |
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | Your [service][3] name, for example, `web-backend`.     |
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | Your [environment][7] name, for example: `production`.|
| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your service.                             |
| `DD_TAGS`                                        | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api, team:intake`.  |

[1]: https://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc-5-4/jfr-runtime-guide/about.htm
[2]: /tracing/profiler/profiler_troubleshooting/#java-8-support
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings?agent_version=6#agent
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
[6]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/solaris/java.html
[7]: /tracing/guide/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#environment
[8]: /tracing/profiler/profiler_troubleshooting/#enabling-the-allocation-profiler
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="python" >}}

**Requirements**

The Datadog Profiler requires Python 2.7+ and Agent version [7.20.2][1]+ or
[6.20.2][2]+.

The following profiling features are available depending on your Python version:

|      Feature         | Supported Python versions          |
|----------------------|------------------------------------|
| Wall time profiling  | Python >= 2.7                      |
| CPU time profiling   | Python >= 2.7 on POSIX platforms   |
| Exception profiling  | Python >= 3.7 on POSIX platforms   |
| Lock profiling       | Python >= 2.7                      |
| Memory profiling     | Python >= 3.5                      |

**Installation**

Install `ddtrace`, which provides both tracing and profiling functionalities:

```shell
pip install ddtrace
```

**Note**: Profiling requires the `ddtrace` library version 0.40+.

If you are using a platform where `ddtrace` binary distribution is not available, install a development environment.

For example, on Alpine Linux, this can be done with:
```shell
apk install gcc musl-dev linux-headers
```

**Usage**

To automatically profile your code, set the `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` environment variable to `true` when you use `ddtrace-run`:

    DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true \
    DD_ENV=prod \
    DD_SERVICE=my-web-app \
    DD_VERSION=1.0.3 \
    ddtrace-run python app.py

It is strongly recommended that you add tags like `service` or `version`, as they provide the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions. See [Configuration] below.

After a couple of minutes, visualize your profiles on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][3].

If you want to manually control the lifecycle of the profiler, use the `ddtrace.profiling.profiler.Profiler` object:

```python
from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

prof = Profiler(
    env="prod",  # if not specified, falls back to environment variable DD_ENV
    service="my-web-app",  # if not specified, falls back to environment variable DD_SERVICE
    version="1.0.3",   # if not specified, falls back to environment variable DD_VERSION
)
prof.start()
```

**Caveats**

When your process forks using `os.fork`, the profiler is actually stopped in
the child process and needs to be restarted. For Python 3.7+ on Unix platforms,
a new profiler is automatically started.

If you use Python < 3.7, or run on a non-Unix platform, you need to manually
start a new profiler in your child process.

```python
# For ddtrace-run users, call this in your child process
ddtrace.profiling.auto.start_profiler()

# Alternatively, for manual instrumentation,
# create a new profiler in your child process:
from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

prof = Profiler()
prof.start()
```

**Configuration**

You can configure the profiler using the following environment variables:

| Environment Variable    | Keyword Argument to `Profiler` | Type                       | Description                                                         |
| ------------------------|------------------------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`  |                                | Boolean                    | Set to `true` to enable profiler.                                   |
| `DD_PROFILING_HEAP_ENABLED` |                            | Boolean                    | Set to `true` to enable memory heap profiling. (ddtrace 0.50+)      |
| `DD_SERVICE`            | `service`                      | String                     | The Datadog [service][4] name.                                      |
| `DD_ENV`                | `env`                          | String                     | The Datadog [environment][5] name, for example, `production`.       |
| `DD_VERSION`            | `version`                      | String                     | The version of your application.                                    |
| `DD_TAGS`               | `tags`                         | String / Dictionary        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. If set with an environment variable, it must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api,team:intake`. If set with keyword argument, it must be a dictionary where keys are tag names and values are tag values such as:`{"layer": "api", "team": "intake"}`.  |



[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings?agent_version=6#agent
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
[4]: /tracing/visualization/#services
[5]: /tracing/guide/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#environment
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}


The Datadog Profiler requires Go 1.12+. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][1]+ or [6.20.2][2]+.

2. Get `dd-trace-go` using the command:

    ```shell
    go get gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler
    ```

     **Note**: Profiler is available in the `dd-trace-go` library for versions 1.23.0+.

3. Import the [profiler][3] at the start of your application:

    ```Go
    import "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler"
    ```

4. Add the following snippet to start the profiler:

    ```Go
    err := profiler.Start(
        profiler.WithService("<SERVICE_NAME>"),
        profiler.WithEnv("<ENVIRONMENT>"),
        profiler.WithVersion("<APPLICATION_VERSION>"),
        profiler.WithTags("<KEY1>:<VALUE1>,<KEY2>:<VALUE2>"),
        profiler.WithProfileTypes(
          profiler.CPUProfile,
          profiler.HeapProfile,
          // The profiles below are disabled by default to keep overhead
          // low, but can be enabled as needed.

          // profiler.BlockProfile,
          // profiler.MutexProfile,
          // profiler.GoroutineProfile,
        ),
    )
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    defer profiler.Stop()
    ```

4. After a minute or two, visualize your profiles in the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][4].

**Note**:

- By default only the CPU and Heap profile are enabled. Use [profiler.WithProfileTypes][5] to enable additional [profile types][6].

- You can set profiler parameters in code with these functions:

| Function | Type          | Description                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|  WithService     | String        | The Datadog [service][7] name, for example `my-web-app`.             |
|  WithEnv         | String        | The Datadog [environment][8] name, for example, `production`.         |
|  WithVersion     | String        | The version of your application.                                                                             |
|  WithTags        | String        | The tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of in the format `<KEY1>:<VALUE1>,<KEY2>:<VALUE2>`. |

- Alternatively you can set profiler configuration using environment variables:

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | The Datadog [service][7] name.     |
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | The Datadog [environment][8] name, for example, `production`. |
| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your application.                             |
| `DD_TAGS`                                        | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api,team:intake`.   |



[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings?agent_version=6#agent
[3]: https://godoc.org/gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler#pkg-constants
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
[5]: https://pkg.go.dev/gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler#WithProfileTypes
[6]: https://pkg.go.dev/gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler#ProfileType
[7]: /tracing/visualization/#services
[8]: /tracing/guide/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#environment
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Datadog Ruby Profiler is currently in public beta. Datadog recommends evaluating the profiler in a non-sensitive environment before deploying in production.
</div>

The Datadog Profiler requires MRI Ruby 2.1+. **Wall time profiling is available for users on every platform (including macOS and Windows), but CPU time profiles are currently only available on Linux platforms**. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][1]+ or [6.20.2][2]+.

2. Add the `ddtrace` and `google-protobuf` gems to your `Gemfile` or `gems.rb` file:

    ```ruby
    gem 'ddtrace', '>= 0.49.0'
    gem 'google-protobuf', '~> 3.0'
    ```

2. Install the gems with `bundle install`.

3. You can auto-enable the profiler with environment variables:

    ```shell
    export DD_PROFILING_ENABLED=true
    export DD_ENV=prod
    export DD_SERVICE=my-web-app
    export DD_VERSION=1.0.3
    ```

    or in code:

    ```ruby
    Datadog.configure do |c|
      c.profiling.enabled = true
      c.env = 'prod'
      c.service = 'my-web-app'
      c.version = '1.0.3'
    end
    ```

    **Note**: For Rails applications you can create a `config/initializers/datadog.rb` file with the code configuration above.


4. Add the `ddtracerb exec` command to your Ruby application start command:

    ```shell
    bundle exec ddtracerb exec ruby myapp.rb
    ```

    Rails example:

    ```shell
    bundle exec ddtracerb exec bin/rails s
    ```

    **Note**

    If starting the application via `ddtracerb exec` is not an option (eg. when using the Phusion Passenger web server), you can alternatively start the profiler by adding the following to your application entry point such as `config.ru` for a web application:

    ```ruby
    require 'ddtrace/profiling/preload'
    ```


4. A minute or two after starting your Ruby application, your profiles will show up on the [Datadog APM > Profiler page][3].

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings?agent_version=6#agent
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

## Not sure what to do next?

The [Getting Started with Profiler][2] guide takes a sample service with a performance problem and shows you how to use Continuous Profiler to understand and fix the problem.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScb9GKmKfSoY6YNV2Wa5P8IzUn02tA7afCahk7S0XHfakjYQw/viewform
[2]: /getting_started/profiler/
