content/en/continuous_integration/pipelines/github.md, before:

---
title: Set up Tracing on GitHub Actions Workflows
kind: documentation
aliases:
  - /continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/github
further_reading:
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Troubleshooting CI Visibility"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines/custom_tags_and_measures/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Extend Pipeline Visibility by adding custom tags and measures"
    - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-github-actions-ci-visibility/"
      tag: "blog"
      text: "Monitor your GitHub Actions workflows with Datadog CI Visibility"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">The selected Datadog site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) is not supported.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Overview

[GitHub Actions][1] is an automation tool that allows you to build, test, and deploy your code in GitHub. Create workflows that automate every step of your development process, streamlining software updates and enhancing code quality with CI/CD features integrated into your repositories.

Set up tracing in GitHub Actions to track the execution of your workflows, identify performance bottlenecks,  troubleshoot operational issues, and optimize your deployment processes. 

### Compatibility

| Pipeline Visibility | Platform | Definition |
|---|---|---|
| [Running pipelines][12] | Running pipelines | View pipeline executions that are running. |
| [Partial retries][13] | Partial pipelines | View partially retried pipeline executions. |
| Logs correlation | Logs correlation | Correlate pipeline and job spans to logs and enable [job log collection][10]. |
| Infrastructure metric correlation | Infrastructure metric correlation | Correlate jobs to [infrastructure host metrics][11] for GitHub jobs. |
| [Custom tags][12] [and measures at runtime][13] | Custom tags and measures at runtime | Configure [custom tags and measures][14] at runtime. |
| [Queue time][15] | Queue time | View the amount of time pipeline jobs sit in the queue before processing. |
| [Approval wait time][16] | Approval wait time | View the amount of time workflow runs and workflow jobs wait for manual approvals. |

The following GitHub versions are supported:

- GitHub.com (SaaS)
- GitHub Enterprise Server (GHES) 3.5.0 or later

## Configure the Datadog integration

### Configure a GitHub App

The [GitHub Actions][1] integration uses a private [GitHub App][2] to collect workflow information. If you already have an app, you can
skip to the next section.

1. Go to the [GitHub integration tile][3].
2. Click **Link GitHub Account**.
3. Follow the instructions to configure the integration for a personal or organization account.
4. In **Edit Permissions**, grant `Actions: Read` access.
5. Click **Create App in GitHub** to finish the app creation process GitHub.
6. Give the app a name, for example, `Datadog CI Visibility`.
7. Click **Install GitHub App** and follow the instructions on GitHub.

### Configure tracing for GitHub Actions

After the GitHub App is created and installed, enable CI Visibility on the accounts and/or repositories you want visibility into.

1. Go to the **[Getting Started][4]** page and click on **GitHub**.
2. Click on **Enable Account** for the account you want to enable.
3. Enable CI Visibility for the whole account by clicking **Enable CI Visibility**.
4. Alternatively, you can enable individual repositories by scrolling through the repository list and clicking the **Enable CI Visibility** toggle.

Pipelines appear immediately after enabling CI Visibility for any account or repository.

### Enable log collection

The GitHub Actions CI Visibility integration also allows automatically forwarding workflow job logs to [Datadog Log Management][5].

To enable logs, follow these steps:

1. Go to the **[CI Visibility settings][6]** page.
2. Click on any account that is enabled or has enabled repositories.
3. Click **Enable Job Logs Collection** to enable logs for the whole account.
4. Alternatively, you can enable individual repositories by scrolling through the repository list and clicking the **Enable Job Logs Collection** toggle.

Immediately after toggling logs collection, workflow job logs are forwarded to Datadog Logs. Note that logs are billed separately from CI Visibility. Log retention, exclusion, and indexes are configured in Logs Settings.

Log files larger than 1GiB are truncated.

### Correlate infrastructure metrics to jobs

If you are using self-hosted GitHub runners, you can correlate jobs to the host that is running them. To do this, make sure the GitHub runner name
matches the hostname of the machine it is running on. CI Visibility uses this to link to
infrastructure metrics. To see the metrics, click on a job span in the trace view and in the window a new tab named **Infrastructure** is
shown which contains the host metrics.

## Visualize pipeline data in Datadog

The [**CI Pipeline List**][7] and [**Executions**][8] pages populate with data after the pipelines finish.

The **CI Pipeline List** page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

## Disable GitHub Actions tracing

To disable the CI Visibility GitHub Actions integration, make sure the GitHub app is no longer subscribed to the
workflow job and workflow run events. To remove the events:

1. Go to the [GitHub Apps][9] page.
2. Click **Edit > Permission & events** on the relevant Datadog GitHub App (if you have multiple apps, you will have to repeat the process for each).
3. Scroll to the **Subscribe to events** section, and make sure that **Workflow job** and **Workflow run** are not selected.


## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://docs.github.com/actions
[2]: https://docs.github.com/developers/apps/getting-started-with-apps/about-apps
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/integrations/github/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/setup/pipeline?provider=github
[5]: /logs/
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/settings
[7]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipelines
[8]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipeline-executions
[9]: https://github.com/settings/apps
[10]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/github/#enable-log-collection
[11]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/github/#correlate-infrastructure-metrics-to-jobs
[12]: /glossary/#running-pipeline
[13]: /glossary/#partial-retry
[14]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/custom_tags_and_measures/?tab=linux
[15]: /glossary/#queue-time
[16]: /glossary/#approval-wait-time

Commit message:

[CIVIS-9922] Improve logs correlation docs for CI providers
This patch adds some extra information to the docs of all of CI
Visibility's supported providers that mention how the collected logs for
the respective provider can be identified and indexed.

content/en/continuous_integration/pipelines/github.md, after:

---
title: Set up Tracing on GitHub Actions Workflows
kind: documentation
aliases:
  - /continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/github
further_reading:
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Troubleshooting CI Visibility"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines/custom_tags_and_measures/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Extend Pipeline Visibility by adding custom tags and measures"
    - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-github-actions-ci-visibility/"
      tag: "blog"
      text: "Monitor your GitHub Actions workflows with Datadog CI Visibility"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">The selected Datadog site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) is not supported.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Overview

[GitHub Actions][1] is an automation tool that allows you to build, test, and deploy your code in GitHub. Create workflows that automate every step of your development process, streamlining software updates and enhancing code quality with CI/CD features integrated into your repositories.

Set up tracing in GitHub Actions to track the execution of your workflows, identify performance bottlenecks,  troubleshoot operational issues, and optimize your deployment processes.

### Compatibility

| Pipeline Visibility | Platform | Definition |
|---|---|---|
| [Running pipelines][12] | Running pipelines | View pipeline executions that are running. |
| [Partial retries][13] | Partial pipelines | View partially retried pipeline executions. |
| Logs correlation | Logs correlation | Correlate pipeline and job spans to logs and enable [job log collection][10]. |
| Infrastructure metric correlation | Infrastructure metric correlation | Correlate jobs to [infrastructure host metrics][11] for GitHub jobs. |
| [Custom tags][12] [and measures at runtime][13] | Custom tags and measures at runtime | Configure [custom tags and measures][14] at runtime. |
| [Queue time][15] | Queue time | View the amount of time pipeline jobs sit in the queue before processing. |
| [Approval wait time][16] | Approval wait time | View the amount of time workflow runs and workflow jobs wait for manual approvals. |

The following GitHub versions are supported:

- GitHub.com (SaaS)
- GitHub Enterprise Server (GHES) 3.5.0 or later

## Configure the Datadog integration

### Configure a GitHub App

The [GitHub Actions][1] integration uses a private [GitHub App][2] to collect workflow information. If you already have an app, you can
skip to the next section.

1. Go to the [GitHub integration tile][3].
2. Click **Link GitHub Account**.
3. Follow the instructions to configure the integration for a personal or organization account.
4. In **Edit Permissions**, grant `Actions: Read` access.
5. Click **Create App in GitHub** to finish the app creation process GitHub.
6. Give the app a name, for example, `Datadog CI Visibility`.
7. Click **Install GitHub App** and follow the instructions on GitHub.

### Configure tracing for GitHub Actions

After the GitHub App is created and installed, enable CI Visibility on the accounts and/or repositories you want visibility into.

1. Go to the **[Getting Started][4]** page and click on **GitHub**.
2. Click on **Enable Account** for the account you want to enable.
3. Enable CI Visibility for the whole account by clicking **Enable CI Visibility**.
4. Alternatively, you can enable individual repositories by scrolling through the repository list and clicking the **Enable CI Visibility** toggle.

Pipelines appear immediately after enabling CI Visibility for any account or repository.

### Enable log collection

The GitHub Actions CI Visibility integration also allows automatically forwarding workflow job logs to [Datadog Log Management][5].

To enable logs, follow these steps:

1. Go to the **[CI Visibility settings][6]** page.
2. Click on any account that is enabled or has enabled repositories.
3. Click **Enable Job Logs Collection** to enable logs for the whole account.
4. Alternatively, you can enable individual repositories by scrolling through the repository list and clicking the **Enable Job Logs Collection** toggle.

Immediately after toggling logs collection, workflow job logs are forwarded to Datadog Logs. Log files larger than 1GiB are truncated.

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Logs are billed separately from CI Visibility. Log retention, exclusion, and indexes are configured in Logs Settings. Logs for GitHub jobs can be identified by the `datadog.product:cipipeline` and `source:github` tags.</div>

### Correlate infrastructure metrics to jobs

If you are using self-hosted GitHub runners, you can correlate jobs to the host that is running them. To do this, make sure the GitHub runner name
matches the hostname of the machine it is running on. CI Visibility uses this to link to
infrastructure metrics. To see the metrics, click on a job span in the trace view and in the window a new tab named **Infrastructure** is
shown which contains the host metrics.

## Visualize pipeline data in Datadog

The [**CI Pipeline List**][7] and [**Executions**][8] pages populate with data after the pipelines finish.

The **CI Pipeline List** page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

## Disable GitHub Actions tracing

To disable the CI Visibility GitHub Actions integration, make sure the GitHub app is no longer subscribed to the
workflow job and workflow run events. To remove the events:

1. Go to the [GitHub Apps][9] page.
2. Click **Edit > Permission & events** on the relevant Datadog GitHub App (if you have multiple apps, you will have to repeat the process for each).
3. Scroll to the **Subscribe to events** section, and make sure that **Workflow job** and **Workflow run** are not selected.


## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://docs.github.com/actions
[2]: https://docs.github.com/developers/apps/getting-started-with-apps/about-apps
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/integrations/github/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/setup/pipeline?provider=github
[5]: /logs/
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/settings
[7]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipelines
[8]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipeline-executions
[9]: https://github.com/settings/apps
[10]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/github/#enable-log-collection
[11]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/github/#correlate-infrastructure-metrics-to-jobs
[12]: /glossary/#running-pipeline
[13]: /glossary/#partial-retry
[14]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/custom_tags_and_measures/?tab=linux
[15]: /glossary/#queue-time
[16]: /glossary/#approval-wait-time
