content/en/continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab.md, before:

---
title: Set up Tracing on a GitLab Pipeline
aliases:
  - /continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/gitlab
further_reading:
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Troubleshooting CI Visibility"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines/custom_tags_and_measures/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Extend Pipeline Visibility by adding custom tags and measures"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Overview

[GitLab][19] is a DevOps platform that automates the software development lifecycle with integrated CI/CD features, enabling you to deploy applications quickly and securely.

Set up tracing in GitLab to collect data on your pipeline executions, analyze performance bottlenecks, troubleshoot operational issues, and optimize your deployment workflows.

### Compatibility

| Pipeline Visibility | Platform | Definition |
|---|---|---|
| [Running pipelines][25] | Running pipelines | View pipeline executions that are running. Queued or waiting pipelines show with status "Running" on Datadog. |
| [Partial retries][20] | Partial pipelines | View partially retried pipeline executions. |
| [Manual steps][21] | Manual steps | View manually triggered pipelines. |
| [Queue time][22] | Queue time | View the amount of time pipeline jobs sit in the queue before processing. |
| Logs correlation | Logs correlation | Correlate pipeline spans to logs and enable [job log collection][12]. |
| Infrastructure metric correlation | Infrastructure metric correlation | Correlate jobs to [infrastructure host metrics][14] for self-hosted GitLab runners. |
| Custom pre-defined tags | Custom pre-defined tags | Set [custom tags][10] to all generated pipeline, stages, and job spans. |
| [Custom tags][15] [and measures at runtime][16] | Custom tags and measures at runtime | Configure [custom tags and measures][13] at runtime. |
| Parameters | Parameters | Set custom `env` or `service` parameters when a pipeline is triggered. |
| [Pipeline failure reasons][11] | Pipeline failure reasons | Identify pipeline failure reasons from [error messages][15]. |
| [Approval wait time][23] | Approval wait time  | View the amount of time jobs and pipelines wait for manual approvals. |
| [Execution time][24] | Execution time  | View the amount of time pipelines have been running jobs. Gitlab refers to this metric as `duration`. Duration in Gitlab and execution time may show different values. Gitlab does not take into consideration jobs that failed due to certain kinds of failures (such as runner system failures). |

The following GitLab versions are supported:

- GitLab.com (SaaS)
- GitLab >= 14.1 (self-hosted)
- GitLab >= 13.7.0 (self-hosted) with the `datadog_ci_integration` feature flag enabled

## Configure the Datadog integration

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitLab.com" %}}

Configure the integration on a [project][1] or [group][2] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project or group you want to instrument.

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-group-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 14.1" %}}

Configure the integration on a [project][1] or [group][2] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project or group you want to instrument.

You can also activate the integration at the GitLab [instance][3] level, by going to **Admin > Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-group-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-instance-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GitLab &lt; 14.1" %}}

Enable the `datadog_ci_integration` [feature flag][1] to activate the integration. Run one of the following commands, which use GitLab's [Rails Runner][2], depending on your installation type:

**Omnibus installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
sudo gitlab-rails runner "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

**From source installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rails runner \
  -e production \
  "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

**Kubernetes installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
kubectl exec -it <task-runner-pod-name> -- \
  /srv/gitlab/bin/rails runner "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

Then, configure the integration on a [project][3] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project you want to instrument.

<div class="alert alert-warning"><strong>Note</strong>: Due to a <a href="https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/335218">bug</a> in early versions of GitLab, the Datadog integration cannot be enabled at <strong>group or instance</strong> level on <strong>GitLab versions < 14.1</strong>, even if the option is available on GitLab's UI</div>

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/feature_flags.html
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/operations/rails_console.html#using-the-rails-runner
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "GitLab &lt; 13.7" %}}

For older versions of GitLab, you can use [webhooks][1] to send pipeline data to Datadog.

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Direct support with webhooks is not under development. Unexpected issues could happen. Datadog recommends that you update GitLab instead.</div>

Go to **Settings > Webhooks** in your repository (or GitLab instance settings), and add a new webhook:

- **URL**: <code>https://webhook-intake.{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}/api/v2/webhook/?dd-api-key=<API_KEY></code> where `<API_KEY>` is your [Datadog API key][2].
- **Secret Token**: leave blank
- **Trigger**: Select `Job events` and `Pipeline events`.

To set custom `env` or `service` parameters, add more query parameters in the webhooks URL: `&env=<YOUR_ENV>&service=<YOUR_SERVICE_NAME>`

**Set custom tags**

To set custom tags to all the pipeline and job spans generated by the integration, add to the **URL** a URL-encoded query parameter `tags`, with `key:value` pairs separated by commas. If a key:value pair contains any commas, surround it with quotes. For example, to add `key1:value1,"key2: value with , comma",key3:value3`, the following string would need to be appended to the **Webhook URL**:

`?tags=key1%3Avalue1%2C%22key2%3A+value+with+%2C+comma%22%2Ckey3%3Avalue3`

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/integrations/webhooks.html
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Fill in the integration configuration settings:

**Active**
: Enables the integration.

**Datadog site**
: Specifies which [Datadog site][1] to send data to.<br/>
**Default**: `datadoghq.com`<br/>
**Selected site**: {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}<br/>

**API URL** (optional)
: Allows overriding the API URL used for sending data directly, only used in advanced scenarios.<br/>
**Default**: (empty, no override)

**API key**
: Specifies which API key to use when sending data. You can generate one in the [APIs tab][2] of the Integrations section on Datadog.

**Service** (optional)
: Specifies which service name to attach to each span generated by the integration. Use this to differentiate between GitLab instances.<br/>
**Default**: `gitlab-ci`

**Env** (optional)
: Specifies which environment (`env` tag) to attach to each span generated by the integration. Use this to differentiate between groups of GitLab instances (for example: staging or production).<br/>
**Default**: `none`

**Tags** (optional)
: Specifies any custom tags to attach to each span generated by the integration. Provide one tag per line in the format: `key:value`.<br/>
**Default**: (empty, no additional tags)<br/>
**Note**: Available only in GitLab.com and GitLab >= 14.8 self-hosted.

You can test the integration with the **Test settings** button (only available when configuring the integration on a project). After it's successful, click **Save changes** to finish the integration set up.


#### Integrate with Datadog Teams
To display and filter the teams associated with your pipelines, add `team:<your-team>` as a custom tag. The custom tag name must match your [Datadog Teams][16] team handle exactly.

## Visualize pipeline data in Datadog

Once the integration is successfully configured, the [**CI Pipeline List**][4] and [**Executions**][5] pages populate with data after the pipelines finish.

The Pipelines page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

### Partial and downstream pipelines

On the **Executions** page, you can use the filters below in the search bar:

`Downstream Pipeline`
: Possible values: `true`, `false`

`Manually Triggered`
: Possible values: `true`, `false`

`Partial Pipeline`
: Possible values: `retry`

{{< img src="ci/partial_retries_search_tags.png" alt="The Pipeline executions page with Partial Pipeline:retry entered in the search query" style="width:100%;">}}

These filters can also be applied through the facet panel on the left hand side of the page.
{{< img src="ci/partial_retries_facet_panel_without_paused.png" alt="The facet panel with Partial Pipeline facet expanded and the value Retry selected, the Partial Retry facet expanded and the value true selected" style="width:40%;">}}


### Correlate infrastructure metrics to jobs

If you are using self-hosted GitLab runners, you can correlate jobs with the infrastructure that is running them.
For this feature to work, the GitLab runner must have a tag of the form `host:<hostname>`. Tags can be added while
[registering a new runner][6]. For existing runners:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 15.8" %}}
Add tags through the UI by going to **Settings > CI/CD > Runners** and editing the appropriate runner.
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "GitLab &lt; 15.8" %}}
Add tags by updating the runner's `config.toml`. Or add tags
through the UI by going to **Settings > CI/CD > Runners** and editing the appropriate runner.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

After these steps, CI Visibility adds the hostname to each job. To see the metrics, click on a job span in the trace
view. In the drawer, a new tab named **Infrastructure** appears which contains the host metrics.

CI Visibility also supports Infrastructure metrics for "Instance" and "Docker Autoscaler" executors. For more information, see the [Correlate Infrastructure Metrics with GitLab Jobs guide][18].


### View error messages for pipeline failures

Error messages are supported for GitLab versions 15.2.0 and above.

For failed GitLab pipeline executions, each error under the `Errors` tab within a specific pipeline execution displays a message associated with the error type from GitLab.

{{< img src="ci/ci_gitlab_failure_reason_new.png" alt="GitLab Failure Reason" style="width:100%;">}}

See the table below for the message and domain correlated with each error type. Any unlisted error type will lead to the error message of `Job failed` and error domain of `unknown`.

| Error Type | Error Message | Error Domain |
| :---  |    :----:   |  ---: |
|  unknown_failure  |  Failed due to unknown reason  |  unknown
|  config_error  |  Failed due to error on CI/CD configuration file |  user
|  external_validation_failure  |  Failed due to external pipeline validation  |  unknown
|  user_not_verified  |  The pipeline failed due to the user not being verified  |  user
|  activity_limit_exceeded  |  The pipeline activity limit was exceeded  |  provider
|  size_limit_exceeded  |  The pipeline size limit was exceeded  |  provider
|  job_activity_limit_exceeded  |  The pipeline job activity limit was exceeded  |  provider
|  deployments_limit_exceeded  |  The pipeline deployments limit was exceeded  |  provider
|  project_deleted  |  The project associated with this pipeline was deleted  |  provider
|  api_failure  |  API Failure  |  provider
|  stuck_or_timeout_failure  |  Pipeline is stuck or timed out  |  unknown
|  runner_system_failure  |  Failed due to runner system failure  |  provider
|  missing_dependency_failure  |  Failed due to missing dependency  |  unknown
|  runner_unsupported  |  Failed due to unsupported runner  |  provider
|  stale_schedule  |  Failed due to stale schedule  |  provider
|  job_execution_timeout  |  Failed due to job timeout  |  unknown
|  archived_failure  |  Archived failure  |  provider
|  unmet_prerequisites  |  Failed due to unmet prerequisite  |  unknown
|  scheduler_failure  |  Failed due to schedule failure  |  provider
|  data_integrity_failure  |  Failed due to data integrity  |  provider
|  forward_deployment_failure  |  Deployment failure  |  unknown
|  user_blocked  |  Blocked by user  |  user
|  ci_quota_exceeded  |  CI quota exceeded  |  provider
|  pipeline_loop_detected  |  Pipeline loop detected  |  user
|  builds_disabled  |  Build disabled  |  user
|  deployment_rejected  |  Deployment rejected  |  user
|  protected_environment_failure  |  Environment failure  |  provider
|  secrets_provider_not_found  |  Secret provider not found  |  user
|  reached_max_descendant_pipelines_depth  |  Reached max descendant pipelines  |  user
|  ip_restriction_failure  |  IP restriction failure  |  provider

<!-- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | -->
<!-- | :---        |    :----:   |          ---: | -->

## Enable job log collection

The following GitLab versions support collecting job logs:

* GitLab.com (SaaS)
* GitLab >= 15.3 (self-hosted) only if you are using [object storage to store job logs][7]
* GitLab >= 14.8 (self-hosted) by enabling the `datadog_integration_logs_collection` feature flag

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Logs are billed separately from CI Visibility.</div>

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Job log collection is not available for <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/data_security/pci_compliance/?tab=logmanagement">PCI-compliant organizations</a>.</div>

Job logs are collected in [Log Management][9] and are automatically correlated with the GitLab pipeline in CI Visibility. Log files larger than one GiB are truncated.

For more information about processing job logs collected from the GitLab integration, see the [Processors documentation][17].

To enable collection of job logs:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitLab.com" %}}
1. Click the **Enable job logs collection** checkbox in the GitLab integration **Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.
2. Click **Save changes**.
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 15.3" %}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">Datadog downloads log files directly from your GitLab logs <a href="https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/job_artifacts.html#using-object-storage">object storage</a> with temporary pre-signed URLs.
This means that for Datadog servers to access the storage, the storage must not have network restrictions
The <a href="https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/object_storage.html#amazon-s3">endpoint</a>, if set, should resolve to a publicly accessible URL.</div>

1. Click **Enable job logs collection** checkbox in the GitLab integration under **Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.
2. Click **Save changes**.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 14.8" %}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">Datadog downloads log files directly from your GitLab logs <a href="https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/job_artifacts.html#using-object-storage">object storage</a> with temporary pre-signed URLs.
This means that for Datadog servers to access the storage, the storage must not have network restrictions
The <a href="https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/object_storage.html#amazon-s3">endpoint</a>, if set, should resolve to a publicly accessible URL.</div>

1. Enable the `datadog_integration_logs_collection` [feature flag][1] in your GitLab. This allows you to see the **Enable job logs collection** checkbox in the GitLab integration under **Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.
2. Click **Enable job logs collection**.
3. Click **Save changes**.

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/feature_flags.html
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Logs are billed separately from CI Visibility. Log retention, exclusion, and indexes are configured in Logs Settings. Logs for GitLab jobs can be identified by the <code>datadog.product:cipipeline</code> and <code>source:gitlab</code> tags.</div>

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /getting_started/site/
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/integrations/webhooks.html
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipelines
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipeline-executions
[6]: https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/register/
[7]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/job_artifacts.html#using-object-storage
[8]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/feature_flags.html
[9]: /logs/
[10]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/?tab=gitlabcom#set-custom-tags
[11]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/?tab=gitlabcom#partial-and-downstream-pipelines
[12]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/#enable-job-log-collection
[13]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/custom_tags_and_measures/?tab=linux
[14]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/?tab=gitlabcom#correlate-infrastructure-metrics-to-jobs
[15]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/?tab=gitlabcom#view-error-messages-for-pipeline-failures
[16]: /account_management/teams/
[17]: /logs/log_configuration/processors/
[18]: /continuous_integration/guides/infrastructure_metrics_with_gitlab
[19]: https://about.gitlab.com/
[20]: /glossary/#partial-retry
[21]: /glossary/#manual-step
[22]: /glossary/#queue-time
[23]: /glossary/#approval-wait-time
[24]: /glossary/#pipeline-execution-time
[25]: /glossary/#running-pipeline

Commit message:

better document infra metrics correlation for GitLab (#24016)
* better document infra metrics correlation for GitLab

* Update content/en/continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab.md

Co-authored-by: Michael Cretzman <58786311+michaelcretzman@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update infrastructure_metrics_with_gitlab.md

Co-authored-by: Jorge Calvar <138497895+calvarjorge@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Michael Cretzman <58786311+michaelcretzman@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Jorge Calvar <138497895+calvarjorge@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab.md, after:

---
title: Set up Tracing on a GitLab Pipeline
aliases:
  - /continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/gitlab
further_reading:
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Troubleshooting CI Visibility"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines/custom_tags_and_measures/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Extend Pipeline Visibility by adding custom tags and measures"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Overview

[GitLab][19] is a DevOps platform that automates the software development lifecycle with integrated CI/CD features, enabling you to deploy applications quickly and securely.

Set up tracing in GitLab to collect data on your pipeline executions, analyze performance bottlenecks, troubleshoot operational issues, and optimize your deployment workflows.

### Compatibility

| Pipeline Visibility | Platform | Definition |
|---|---|---|
| [Running pipelines][25] | Running pipelines | View pipeline executions that are running. Queued or waiting pipelines show with status "Running" on Datadog. |
| [Partial retries][20] | Partial pipelines | View partially retried pipeline executions. |
| [Manual steps][21] | Manual steps | View manually triggered pipelines. |
| [Queue time][22] | Queue time | View the amount of time pipeline jobs sit in the queue before processing. |
| Logs correlation | Logs correlation | Correlate pipeline spans to logs and enable [job log collection][12]. |
| Infrastructure metric correlation | Infrastructure metric correlation | Correlate jobs to [infrastructure host metrics][14] for self-hosted GitLab runners. |
| Custom pre-defined tags | Custom pre-defined tags | Set [custom tags][10] to all generated pipeline, stages, and job spans. |
| [Custom tags][15] [and measures at runtime][16] | Custom tags and measures at runtime | Configure [custom tags and measures][13] at runtime. |
| Parameters | Parameters | Set custom `env` or `service` parameters when a pipeline is triggered. |
| [Pipeline failure reasons][11] | Pipeline failure reasons | Identify pipeline failure reasons from [error messages][15]. |
| [Approval wait time][23] | Approval wait time  | View the amount of time jobs and pipelines wait for manual approvals. |
| [Execution time][24] | Execution time  | View the amount of time pipelines have been running jobs. Gitlab refers to this metric as `duration`. Duration in Gitlab and execution time may show different values. Gitlab does not take into consideration jobs that failed due to certain kinds of failures (such as runner system failures). |

The following GitLab versions are supported:

- GitLab.com (SaaS)
- GitLab >= 14.1 (self-hosted)
- GitLab >= 13.7.0 (self-hosted) with the `datadog_ci_integration` feature flag enabled

## Configure the Datadog integration

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitLab.com" %}}

Configure the integration on a [project][1] or [group][2] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project or group you want to instrument.

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-group-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 14.1" %}}

Configure the integration on a [project][1] or [group][2] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project or group you want to instrument.

You can also activate the integration at the GitLab [instance][3] level, by going to **Admin > Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-group-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#manage-instance-level-default-settings-for-a-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "GitLab &lt; 14.1" %}}

Enable the `datadog_ci_integration` [feature flag][1] to activate the integration. Run one of the following commands, which use GitLab's [Rails Runner][2], depending on your installation type:

**Omnibus installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
sudo gitlab-rails runner "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

**From source installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
sudo -u git -H bundle exec rails runner \
  -e production \
  "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

**Kubernetes installations**

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
kubectl exec -it <task-runner-pod-name> -- \
  /srv/gitlab/bin/rails runner "Feature.enable(:datadog_ci_integration)"
{{< /code-block >}}

Then, configure the integration on a [project][3] by going to **Settings > Integrations > Datadog** for each project you want to instrument.

<div class="alert alert-warning"><strong>Note</strong>: Due to a <a href="https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/335218">bug</a> in early versions of GitLab, the Datadog integration cannot be enabled at <strong>group or instance</strong> level on <strong>GitLab versions < 14.1</strong>, even if the option is available on GitLab's UI</div>

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/feature_flags.html
[2]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/operations/rails_console.html#using-the-rails-runner
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/admin_area/settings/project_integration_management.html#use-custom-settings-for-a-group-or-project-integration
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "GitLab &lt; 13.7" %}}

For older versions of GitLab, you can use [webhooks][1] to send pipeline data to Datadog.

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Direct support with webhooks is not under development. Unexpected issues could happen. Datadog recommends that you update GitLab instead.</div>

Go to **Settings > Webhooks** in your repository (or GitLab instance settings), and add a new webhook:

- **URL**: <code>https://webhook-intake.{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}/api/v2/webhook/?dd-api-key=<API_KEY></code> where `<API_KEY>` is your [Datadog API key][2].
- **Secret Token**: leave blank
- **Trigger**: Select `Job events` and `Pipeline events`.

To set custom `env` or `service` parameters, add more query parameters in the webhooks URL: `&env=<YOUR_ENV>&service=<YOUR_SERVICE_NAME>`

**Set custom tags**

To set custom tags to all the pipeline and job spans generated by the integration, add to the **URL** a URL-encoded query parameter `tags`, with `key:value` pairs separated by commas. If a key:value pair contains any commas, surround it with quotes. For example, to add `key1:value1,"key2: value with , comma",key3:value3`, the following string would need to be appended to the **Webhook URL**:

`?tags=key1%3Avalue1%2C%22key2%3A+value+with+%2C+comma%22%2Ckey3%3Avalue3`

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/integrations/webhooks.html
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Fill in the integration configuration settings:

**Active**
: Enables the integration.

**Datadog site**
: Specifies which [Datadog site][1] to send data to.<br/>
**Default**: `datadoghq.com`<br/>
**Selected site**: {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}<br/>

**API URL** (optional)
: Allows overriding the API URL used for sending data directly, only used in advanced scenarios.<br/>
**Default**: (empty, no override)

**API key**
: Specifies which API key to use when sending data. You can generate one in the [APIs tab][2] of the Integrations section on Datadog.

**Service** (optional)
: Specifies which service name to attach to each span generated by the integration. Use this to differentiate between GitLab instances.<br/>
**Default**: `gitlab-ci`

**Env** (optional)
: Specifies which environment (`env` tag) to attach to each span generated by the integration. Use this to differentiate between groups of GitLab instances (for example: staging or production).<br/>
**Default**: `none`

**Tags** (optional)
: Specifies any custom tags to attach to each span generated by the integration. Provide one tag per line in the format: `key:value`.<br/>
**Default**: (empty, no additional tags)<br/>
**Note**: Available only in GitLab.com and GitLab >= 14.8 self-hosted.

You can test the integration with the **Test settings** button (only available when configuring the integration on a project). After it's successful, click **Save changes** to finish the integration set up.


#### Integrate with Datadog Teams
To display and filter the teams associated with your pipelines, add `team:<your-team>` as a custom tag. The custom tag name must match your [Datadog Teams][16] team handle exactly.

## Visualize pipeline data in Datadog

Once the integration is successfully configured, the [**CI Pipeline List**][4] and [**Executions**][5] pages populate with data after the pipelines finish.

The Pipelines page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

### Partial and downstream pipelines

On the **Executions** page, you can use the filters below in the search bar:

`Downstream Pipeline`
: Possible values: `true`, `false`

`Manually Triggered`
: Possible values: `true`, `false`

`Partial Pipeline`
: Possible values: `retry`

{{< img src="ci/partial_retries_search_tags.png" alt="The Pipeline executions page with Partial Pipeline:retry entered in the search query" style="width:100%;">}}

These filters can also be applied through the facet panel on the left hand side of the page.
{{< img src="ci/partial_retries_facet_panel_without_paused.png" alt="The facet panel with Partial Pipeline facet expanded and the value Retry selected, the Partial Retry facet expanded and the value true selected" style="width:40%;">}}


### Correlate infrastructure metrics to jobs

If you are using self-hosted GitLab runners, you can correlate jobs with the infrastructure that is running them. Datadog infrastructure correlation is possible using different methods:

#### Tagging runners with hostname

The GitLab runner must have a tag of the form `host:<hostname>`. Tags can be added while [registering a new runner][6]. As a result, this method is only available when the runner is directly running the job. This excludes executors that are autoscaling the infrastructure in order to run the job
(such as the Kubernetes, Docker Autoscaler, or Instance executors) as it is not possible to add tags dynamically for those runners.

For existing runners:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 15.8" %}}
Add tags through the UI by going to **Settings > CI/CD > Runners** and editing the appropriate runner.
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "GitLab &lt; 15.8" %}}
Add tags by updating the runner's `config.toml`. Or add tags
through the UI by going to **Settings > CI/CD > Runners** and editing the appropriate runner.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

After these steps, CI Visibility adds the hostname to each job. To see the metrics, click on a job span in the trace
view. In the drawer, a new tab named **Infrastructure** appears which contains the host metrics.

#### Instance and Docker Autoscaler executors
CI Visibility also supports Infrastructure metrics for "Instance" and "Docker Autoscaler" executors. For more information, see the [Correlate Infrastructure Metrics with GitLab Jobs guide][18].

#### Other executors

CI Visibility does not support Infrastructure metrics for other executors such as the Kubernetes executor.

### View error messages for pipeline failures

Error messages are supported for GitLab versions 15.2.0 and above.

For failed GitLab pipeline executions, each error under the `Errors` tab within a specific pipeline execution displays a message associated with the error type from GitLab.

{{< img src="ci/ci_gitlab_failure_reason_new.png" alt="GitLab Failure Reason" style="width:100%;">}}

See the table below for the message and domain correlated with each error type. Any unlisted error type will lead to the error message of `Job failed` and error domain of `unknown`.

| Error Type | Error Message | Error Domain |
| :---  |    :----:   |  ---: |
|  unknown_failure  |  Failed due to unknown reason  |  unknown
|  config_error  |  Failed due to error on CI/CD configuration file |  user
|  external_validation_failure  |  Failed due to external pipeline validation  |  unknown
|  user_not_verified  |  The pipeline failed due to the user not being verified  |  user
|  activity_limit_exceeded  |  The pipeline activity limit was exceeded  |  provider
|  size_limit_exceeded  |  The pipeline size limit was exceeded  |  provider
|  job_activity_limit_exceeded  |  The pipeline job activity limit was exceeded  |  provider
|  deployments_limit_exceeded  |  The pipeline deployments limit was exceeded  |  provider
|  project_deleted  |  The project associated with this pipeline was deleted  |  provider
|  api_failure  |  API Failure  |  provider
|  stuck_or_timeout_failure  |  Pipeline is stuck or timed out  |  unknown
|  runner_system_failure  |  Failed due to runner system failure  |  provider
|  missing_dependency_failure  |  Failed due to missing dependency  |  unknown
|  runner_unsupported  |  Failed due to unsupported runner  |  provider
|  stale_schedule  |  Failed due to stale schedule  |  provider
|  job_execution_timeout  |  Failed due to job timeout  |  unknown
|  archived_failure  |  Archived failure  |  provider
|  unmet_prerequisites  |  Failed due to unmet prerequisite  |  unknown
|  scheduler_failure  |  Failed due to schedule failure  |  provider
|  data_integrity_failure  |  Failed due to data integrity  |  provider
|  forward_deployment_failure  |  Deployment failure  |  unknown
|  user_blocked  |  Blocked by user  |  user
|  ci_quota_exceeded  |  CI quota exceeded  |  provider
|  pipeline_loop_detected  |  Pipeline loop detected  |  user
|  builds_disabled  |  Build disabled  |  user
|  deployment_rejected  |  Deployment rejected  |  user
|  protected_environment_failure  |  Environment failure  |  provider
|  secrets_provider_not_found  |  Secret provider not found  |  user
|  reached_max_descendant_pipelines_depth  |  Reached max descendant pipelines  |  user
|  ip_restriction_failure  |  IP restriction failure  |  provider

<!-- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | -->
<!-- | :---        |    :----:   |          ---: | -->

## Enable job log collection

The following GitLab versions support collecting job logs:

* GitLab.com (SaaS)
* GitLab >= 15.3 (self-hosted) only if you are using [object storage to store job logs][7]
* GitLab >= 14.8 (self-hosted) by enabling the `datadog_integration_logs_collection` feature flag

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Logs are billed separately from CI Visibility.</div>

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Job log collection is not available for <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/data_security/pci_compliance/?tab=logmanagement">PCI-compliant organizations</a>.</div>

Job logs are collected in [Log Management][9] and are automatically correlated with the GitLab pipeline in CI Visibility. Log files larger than one GiB are truncated.

For more information about processing job logs collected from the GitLab integration, see the [Processors documentation][17].

To enable collection of job logs:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "GitLab.com" %}}
1. Click the **Enable job logs collection** checkbox in the GitLab integration **Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.
2. Click **Save changes**.
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 15.3" %}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">Datadog downloads log files directly from your GitLab logs <a href="https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/job_artifacts.html#using-object-storage">object storage</a> with temporary pre-signed URLs.
This means that for Datadog servers to access the storage, the storage must not have network restrictions
The <a href="https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/object_storage.html#amazon-s3">endpoint</a>, if set, should resolve to a publicly accessible URL.</div>

1. Click **Enable job logs collection** checkbox in the GitLab integration under **Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.
2. Click **Save changes**.

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "GitLab &gt;&equals; 14.8" %}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">Datadog downloads log files directly from your GitLab logs <a href="https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/job_artifacts.html#using-object-storage">object storage</a> with temporary pre-signed URLs.
This means that for Datadog servers to access the storage, the storage must not have network restrictions
The <a href="https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/object_storage.html#amazon-s3">endpoint</a>, if set, should resolve to a publicly accessible URL.</div>

1. Enable the `datadog_integration_logs_collection` [feature flag][1] in your GitLab. This allows you to see the **Enable job logs collection** checkbox in the GitLab integration under **Settings > Integrations > Datadog**.
2. Click **Enable job logs collection**.
3. Click **Save changes**.

[1]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/feature_flags.html
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<div class="alert alert-info"><strong>Note</strong>: Logs are billed separately from CI Visibility. Log retention, exclusion, and indexes are configured in Logs Settings. Logs for GitLab jobs can be identified by the <code>datadog.product:cipipeline</code> and <code>source:gitlab</code> tags.</div>

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /getting_started/site/
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[3]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/integrations/webhooks.html
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipelines
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/pipeline-executions
[6]: https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/register/
[7]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/job_artifacts.html#using-object-storage
[8]: https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/feature_flags.html
[9]: /logs/
[10]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/?tab=gitlabcom#set-custom-tags
[11]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/?tab=gitlabcom#partial-and-downstream-pipelines
[12]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/#enable-job-log-collection
[13]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/custom_tags_and_measures/?tab=linux
[14]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/?tab=gitlabcom#correlate-infrastructure-metrics-to-jobs
[15]: /continuous_integration/pipelines/gitlab/?tab=gitlabcom#view-error-messages-for-pipeline-failures
[16]: /account_management/teams/
[17]: /logs/log_configuration/processors/
[18]: /continuous_integration/guides/infrastructure_metrics_with_gitlab
[19]: https://about.gitlab.com/
[20]: /glossary/#partial-retry
[21]: /glossary/#manual-step
[22]: /glossary/#queue-time
[23]: /glossary/#approval-wait-time
[24]: /glossary/#pipeline-execution-time
[25]: /glossary/#running-pipeline
