---
title: Security Signals
kind: documentation
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
  - link: "/security/threats/workload_security_rules"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Learn how to manage detection rules"
---

A Cloud Security Management Threats (CSM Threats) security signal is created when Datadog detects a threat based on a security rule. View, search, filter, and correlate security signals in the Signal Explorer without needing to learn a dedicated query language. You can either monitor signals from Datadog Security, or configure [Notification Rules][1] to send signals to third-party tools. Signals can be assigned to yourself or another user in the Datadog platform.


### Audit Trail for security signal actions

As an administrator or security team member, you can use [Audit Trail][2] to see what actions your team is taking within the Security Product. As an individual, you can see a stream of your own actions.

The Audit Trail Explorer displays all signal actions taken. Navigate to **Organization Settings** and select **Audit Trail** under **Compliance**.

To exclusively show Audit Logs generated by actions taken in Datadog Cloud Security:
- Use the following query `@evt.name:"Cloud Security Platform"` OR
- Select the "Cloud Security Platform" facet under the "Event Name" facet.

### Role-based access control for security signal management

If you have the `Security Signals Write` permission, you can modify a security signal generated within the previous 30 days, such as change state and view signal action history in the [Audit Trail][2]. Within the signal explorer, you can use dedicated facets to filter signals that have been acted upon and view high-level information about actions within a row. After you take action on a signal, you can see your activity in the Audit Trail.

See [Role Based Access Control][3] for more information about Datadog's default roles and granular role-based access control permissions available for Datadog Security in the Cloud Security.

## View signals by status in the Signal Explorer

The Security Signal Explorer displays all signals that your role permits you to view. Select **Security Signals** and filter the signals as follows:

1. To add the column **Signal State**, select the **Options** button in the top right corner above the table and add the facet: `@workflow.triage.state`. This displays signal status and allows you to sort by status through the header.
2. To search through signals by state, use the following search syntax `@workflow.triage.state:` and include the state (`open`, `under_review`, or `archived`) to filter on in the query.
3.You can also select the **Signal State** facet on the facet panel to filter on signals using facets.

## Investigate a signal

To change a signal's state, follow the instructions below:

1. Navigate to [**Cloud Security Management** > **Issues** > **Threats**][4].
1. Select a security signal from the table.
1. To assign a signal to yourself or another Datadog user, navigate to the user profile icon with the plus sign in the top right corner of the signal side panel.
1. To update the status of the security signal, navigate to the top left corner of the signal side panel and select the status you want from the dropdown menu. The default status is `Open`.
    - **Open**: Datadog Security triggered a detection based on a rule, and the resulting signal is not yet resolved.
    - **Under Review**: During an active investigation, you can switch the signal state to **Under Review**. From the **Under Review** state, you can move the signal state to **Archived** or **Open** as needed.
    - **Archived**: When the detection that caused the signal has been resolved, you can transition it to the **Archived** state. If an archived issue resurfaces, or if further investigation is necessary, a signal can be changed back to an **Open** state within 30 days of being created.

### Declare an incident

Any security signal warning of a possible disruption to your organization's services can be considered an incident. It is often necessary to have a set framework for handling these threats. [Incident Management][5] provides a system to effectively identify and mitigate incidents.

To declare an incident:

1. Click the **Escalate Investigation** dropdown menu.
2. Select **Declare incident**.

### Case Management

You can create a case from a CSM Threats security signal to track, triage, and investigate your signals.

1. Click the **Escalate Investigation** dropdown menu.
2. Select **Create a case** to start a security investigation.
3. If a case is determined to be critical after further investigation, click **Declare Incident** in the case to escalate it to an incident. See [Case Management][6] for more information.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /security/notifications/rules/
[2]: /account_management/audit_trail/events/#cloud-security-platform-events
[3]: /account_management/rbac/
[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security?product=cws
[5]: /service_management/incident_management/
[6]: /service_management/case_management/