content/en/observability_pipelines/log_volume_control/splunk_tcp.md, before:

---
title: Log Volume Control for Splunk Heavy and Universal Forwarders (TCP)
disable_toc: false
---

## Overview

This document walks you through the following steps to set up the Observability Pipelines Worker with Splunk Heavy and Universal Forwarders so that you route only useful logs to your destinations:

1. The [prerequisites](#prerequisites) needed to set up Observability Pipelines
1. [Setting up Observability Pipelines](#set-up-observability-pipelines)
1. [Connecting Splunk Forwarder to the Observability Pipelines Worker](#connect-splunk-forwarder-to-the-observability-pipelines-worker)

## Prerequisites

{{% observability_pipelines/prerequisites/splunk_tcp %}}

## Set up Observability Pipelines

1. Navigate to [Observability Pipelines][1].
1. Select the **Log Volume** template to create a new pipeline.
1. Select **Splunk TCP** as the source.

### Set up the source

{{% observability_pipelines/source_settings/splunk_tcp %}}

### Set up the destination

Enter the following information based on your selected logs destination.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/datadog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk HEC" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sumo Logic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/sumo_logic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Syslog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/syslog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Chronicle" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/chronicle %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Elasticsearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/elasticsearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/amazon_opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Set up processors

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/intro %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/filter_syntax %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/add_processors %}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Filter" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/filter %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Edit fields" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/remap %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sample" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/sample %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Grok Parser" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/grok_parser %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Quota" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/quota %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Reduce" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/reduce %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Dedupe" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/dedupe %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sensitive Data Scanner" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/sensitive_data_scanner %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Add hostname" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/add_hostname %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Parse JSON" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/parse_json %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Enrichment table" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/enrichment_table %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Install the Observability Pipelines Worker
1. Select your platform in the **Choose your installation platform** dropdown menu.
1. Enter the Splunk TCP address. This is the address and port where your applications are sending their logging data. The Observability Pipelines Worker listens to this address for incoming logs.
1. Provide the environment variables for each of your selected destinations. See [prerequisites](#prerequisites) for more information.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk HEC" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sumo Logic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/sumo_logic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Syslog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/syslog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Chronicle" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/chronicle %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Elasticsearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/elasticsearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/amazon_opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
1. Follow the instructions for your environment to install the Worker.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/docker %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon EKS" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/amazon_eks %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Azure AKS" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/azure_aks %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google GKE" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/google_gke %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Linux (APT)" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/linux_apt %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Linux (RPM)" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/linux_rpm %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "CloudFormation" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/cloudformation %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{% observability_pipelines/log_source_configuration/splunk_tcp %}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines

Commit message:

add image shortcodes and update images

content/en/observability_pipelines/log_volume_control/splunk_tcp.md, after:

---
title: Log Volume Control for Splunk Heavy and Universal Forwarders (TCP)
disable_toc: false
---

## Overview

This document walks you through the following steps to set up the Observability Pipelines Worker with Splunk Heavy and Universal Forwarders so that you route only useful logs to your destinations.

{{% observability_pipelines/use_case_images/log_volume_control %}}

This document walks you through the following steps:
1. The [prerequisites](#prerequisites) needed to set up Observability Pipelines
1. [Setting up Observability Pipelines](#set-up-observability-pipelines)
1. [Connecting Splunk Forwarder to the Observability Pipelines Worker](#connect-splunk-forwarder-to-the-observability-pipelines-worker)

## Prerequisites

{{% observability_pipelines/prerequisites/splunk_tcp %}}

## Set up Observability Pipelines

1. Navigate to [Observability Pipelines][1].
1. Select the **Log Volume** template to create a new pipeline.
1. Select **Splunk TCP** as the source.

### Set up the source

{{% observability_pipelines/source_settings/splunk_tcp %}}

### Set up the destination

Enter the following information based on your selected logs destination.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/datadog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk HEC" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sumo Logic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/sumo_logic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Syslog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/syslog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Chronicle" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/chronicle %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Elasticsearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/elasticsearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_settings/amazon_opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Set up processors

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/intro %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/filter_syntax %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/add_processors %}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Filter" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/filter %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Edit fields" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/remap %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sample" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/sample %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Grok Parser" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/grok_parser %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Quota" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/quota %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Reduce" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/reduce %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Dedupe" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/dedupe %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sensitive Data Scanner" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/sensitive_data_scanner %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Add hostname" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/add_hostname %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Parse JSON" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/parse_json %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Enrichment table" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/processors/enrichment_table %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Install the Observability Pipelines Worker
1. Select your platform in the **Choose your installation platform** dropdown menu.
1. Enter the Splunk TCP address. This is the address and port where your applications are sending their logging data. The Observability Pipelines Worker listens to this address for incoming logs.
1. Provide the environment variables for each of your selected destinations. See [prerequisites](#prerequisites) for more information.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/datadog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Splunk HEC" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/splunk_hec %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Sumo Logic" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/sumo_logic %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Syslog" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/syslog %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Chronicle" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/chronicle %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Elasticsearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/elasticsearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon OpenSearch" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/destination_env_vars/amazon_opensearch %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
1. Follow the instructions for your environment to install the Worker.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/docker %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon EKS" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/amazon_eks %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Azure AKS" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/azure_aks %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Google GKE" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/google_gke %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Linux (APT)" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/linux_apt %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Linux (RPM)" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/linux_rpm %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "CloudFormation" %}}

{{% observability_pipelines/install_worker/cloudformation %}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{% observability_pipelines/log_source_configuration/splunk_tcp %}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines
