content/en/service_management/case_management/customization.md, before:

---
title: Customization
further_reading:
- link: "service_management/case_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Case Management Overview"
- link: "service_management/case_management/create_case"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Create a case"
- link: "service_management/case_management/settings"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Settings"
---

## Overview

Datadog Case Management allows customization to align with your team's unique workflows, data capture needs, and reporting requirements.

## Custom Case Types

<div class="alert alert-danger">
  You must have Case Shared Settings Write (<code>cases_shared_settings_write</code>) permissions. For more information, see
  <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/rbac/permissions/#case_management">Datadog Role Permissions</a>.
</div>

Datadog provides five [built-in case types][1], each designed for common workflows. To customize Case Management for your team's needs, you can define your own custom case types. This allows you to:

* Scope custom data capture to relevant work types
* Enable targeted automation
* Conduct more granular analytics and reporting

##### Create a custom case type

1. Navigate to [**Settings > Shared Settings > Case Types**][2].
2. Click **+ Create Case Type**.
3. Provide a **Name** and an optional **Description**.
4. Save your new case type.
5. (Optional) See the [custom attributes section](#custom-attributes) of this page to add custom attributes.

##### Enable a custom case type

After you create a custom case type, you must explicitly assign it to each project where it should be available. Follow the steps below to enable your new case type within a specific Case Management project.

1. Back on the [**Settings** page][2], locate the target project under either **Starred Projects** or **Other Projects**.
2. Expand the project menu by clicking on the project name.
3. Click **General** to open the project's settings panel.
4. Scroll down to the Case Types section in the settings panel.
5. Under **From your organization**, open the dropdown and select the custom case type you created.

{{< img src="/service_management/case_management/customization/enable_custom_attribute.png" alt="Enable a custom case type in project settings" style="width:100%;" >}}

After you add the case type, it is available as an option when you create a new case within that project.

Your new case type is available for:

* Manual case creation
* API-based creation
* Automated case creation through Workflows

## Custom attributes

Custom attributes allow you to capture the structured data your team needs to work efficiently and report effectively. All case types, whether Datadog-provided or custom, include five reserved attributes that cannot be removed or modified:

* Teams
* Services
* Environments
* Datacenters
* Versions

{{< img src="/service_management/case_management/customization/add_custom_attribute.png" alt="Add a custom attribute to a case type" style="width:100%;" >}}

You can add attributes that reflect your team's specific needs, such as escalation levels, component owners, business impact, or external links. To add a custom attribute:

1. Navigate to [**Settings > Shared Settings > Case Types**][2].
2. Click the desired case type.
3. Click **+ Add Attribute**.
4. Provide:
   * Display Name (such as "Region")
   * Key (used for programmatic access and reporting)
   * Description (optional context for your team)
   * Data Type, choose from:
     * Text
     * URL
     * Number
   * Choose whether to allow multiple values for this attribute.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /service_management/case_management/create_case#case-types
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/cases/settings?type=shared

Commit message:

Add case custom status feature

content/en/service_management/case_management/customization.md, after:

---
title: Customization
---
description: Customize Datadog Case Management with custom case types and attributes.
---


further_reading:
- link: "service_management/case_management/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Case Management Overview"
- link: "service_management/case_management/create_case"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Create a case"
- link: "service_management/case_management/settings"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Settings"
---

## Overview

Datadog Case Management allows customization to align with your team's unique workflows, data capture needs, and reporting requirements.

## Custom Case Types

<div class="alert alert-danger">
  You must have Case Shared Settings Write (<code>cases_shared_settings_write</code>) permissions. For more information, see
  <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/rbac/permissions/#case_management">Datadog Role Permissions</a>.
</div>

Datadog provides five [built-in case types][1], each designed for common workflows. To customize Case Management for your team's needs, you can define your own custom case types. This allows you to:

* Scope custom data capture to relevant work types
* Enable targeted automation
* Conduct more granular analytics and reporting

### Create a custom case type

1. Navigate to [**Settings > Shared Settings > Case Types**][2].
2. Click **+ Create Case Type**.
3. Provide a **Name** and an optional **Description**.
4. Save your new case type.
5. (Optional) See the [custom attributes section](#custom-attributes) of this page to add custom attributes.

### Enable a custom case type

After you create a custom case type, you must explicitly assign it to each project where it should be available. Follow the steps below to enable your new case type within a specific Case Management project.

1. Back on the [**Settings** page][2], locate the target project under either **Starred Projects** or **Other Projects**.
2. Expand the project menu by clicking on the project name.
3. Click **General** to open the project's settings panel.
4. Scroll down to the Case Types section in the settings panel.
5. Under **From your organization**, open the dropdown and select the custom case type you created.

{{< img src="/service_management/case_management/customization/enable_custom_attribute.png" alt="Enable a custom case type in project settings" style="width:100%;" >}}

After you add the case type, it is available as an option when you create a new case within that project.

Your new case type is available for:

* Manual case creation
* API-based creation
* Automated case creation through Workflows

## Custom attributes

Custom attributes allow you to capture the structured data your team needs to work efficiently and report effectively. All case types, whether Datadog-provided or custom, include five reserved attributes that cannot be removed or modified:

* Teams
* Services
* Environments
* Datacenters
* Versions

{{< img src="/service_management/case_management/customization/add_custom_attribute.png" alt="Add a custom attribute to a case type" style="width:100%;" >}}

You can add attributes that reflect your team's specific needs, such as escalation levels, component owners, business impact, or external links. To add a custom attribute:

1. Navigate to [**Settings > Shared Settings > Case Types**][2].
2. Click the desired case type.
3. Click **+ Add Attribute**.
4. Provide:
   * Display Name (such as "Region")
   * Key (used for programmatic access and reporting)
   * Description (optional context for your team)
   * Data Type, choose from:
     * Text
     * URL
     * Number
   * Choose whether to allow multiple values for this attribute.

## Custom statuses

Case Management supports customizable case statuses. By default, cases move through Open, In Progress, and Closed. You can add additional statuses to represent reviews, handoffs, or other workflow steps.

Custom statuses help you:
- Standardize how work moves through each stage of a case lifecycle.
- Reflect reviews, handoffs, and intermediate states.
- Improve reporting and automation by aligning statuses with your processes.

### Create a custom status

1. Navigate to [**Settings > Shared Settings > Case Types**][2].
2. Select the case type you want to update.
3. Scroll to the **Statuses** section.
4. Add a new status under one of the three existing status groups: **Open, In-Progress,** or **Closed**.
5. (Optional) Set a new **default status** for each status group. Default Statuses are used in automations as the preferred statuses for the group when exact status names are not provided.

<!-- \[Screenshot here\] -->

* Each status group (`Open`, `In-Progress`, `Closed`) must contain at least one status.
* You can delete an existing status, but you must first migrate any cases currently using that status to another status in the same group.
* Custom statuses behave exactly the same as Datadog's built-in statuses.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /service_management/case_management/create_case#case-types
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/cases/settings?type=shared
