content/en/security/cloud_siem/detect_and_monitor/mitre_attack_map.md, before:

---
title: MITRE ATT&CK Map
disable_toc: false
aliases:
  - /security/cloud_siem/detection_rules/attack_map
  - /security/cloud_siem/detection_rules/mitre_attack_map
further_reading:
- link: "/security/cloud_siem/detect_and_monitor/custom_detection_rules/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Create custom detection rules"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/cloud-siem-mitre-attack-map/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Identify gaps to strengthen detection coverage with the Datadog Cloud SIEM MITRE ATT&CK Map"
---

## Overview

<div class="alert alert-danger">The MITRE ATT&CK Map only covers <a href="https://attack.mitre.org/matrices/enterprise/">MITRE ATT&CK Enterprise.</a></div>

The MITRE ATT&CK Framework is a knowledge base used to develop specific threat models and methodologies. Use the Cloud SIEM MITRE ATT&CK Map to explore and visualize the MITRE ATT&CK Framework against Datadog's out-of-the-box rules and your custom detection rules. The MITRE ATT&CK Map displays detection rule density as a heat map to provide visibility into attacker techniques. Your security teams can use the heat map to assess gaps in coverage that is relevant to their organization or team and prioritize improvements to their detection rule defenses.

## View detection rules in the MITRE ATT&CK Map

To view detection rules against the MITRE ATT&CK Framework:
1. Navigate to the [Detection Rules][1] page.
1. Click the **MITRE ATT&CK Map** button located next to **Rules List**.
1. Toggle the resize button on the bottom left side of the page to switch between an expanded view and a condensed view.

The default view of the map shows all Datadog out-of-the-box and custom rules for active sources, broken down into different attack techniques. Active sources are the sources of logs found and analyzed in the Cloud SIEM index.

**Note**: For the legacy SKU, all ingested logs are analyzed by Cloud SIEM unless [security filters][2] have been set up.

To view the map for all sources, in the **Visualize** dropdown menu, select **All Sources**. This shows all out-of-the-box rules, including those that are not currently used to detect threats from your logs.

Click the rule density buttons to visualize the map for a specific number of rules. For example, if you click **High 7+**, only tiles that have more than seven rules enabled are shown on the map.

### View an attacker technique's information and related rules

To view more information about a technique and the rules monitoring the technique:

1. On the [MITRE ATT&CK Map][3] page, click on a technique tile.
1. Click **Create Custom Rule** if you want to create a custom rule for this technique. See [Detection Rules][4] for more information on creating custom rules. **Note**: For the custom rule to show within active sources, the appropriate source tag must be defined in the detection rule.
1. In the **Rules monitoring this Technique** section, you can:
	1. Enter a search query to filter to specific rules.
  1. Sort by the creation date, rule type, rule name, source, or highest severity.
  1. Toggle **Show deprecated rules** to see deprecated rules for this technique.

### Add attacker technique and tactic tags to custom rules

Custom rules only show up in the map if they are tagged in the rule editor with the correct MITRE tactic and technique. The tactic and technique must also be paired correctly. If the correct format and pairing are not used, the rule does not show up in the map when you use the search bar to filter for that rule.

This is an example of the format you need to use for tagging custom rules and the correct pairing of tactic and technique tags:

- `tactic: <tactic number>-<tactic name>`
    - For example: `tactic:TA0001-Initial-Access`
- `technique: <technique number>-<technique name>`
    - For example: `technique:T1566-Phishing`

**Note**: The tactic and technique need to be based on the MITRE ATT&CK version stated on the [MITRE ATT&CK Map][3] page.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/siem/rules
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/cloud_siem/guide/how-to-setup-security-filters-using-cloud-siem-api/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/siem/rules?query=product=siem&sort=date&viz=attck-map
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/cloud_siem/detect_and_monitor/custom_detection_rules/?tab=threshold

Commit message:

Update mitre_attack_map formatting requirements (#34586)
* Update mitre_attack_map formatting requirements .md

updating the requirements in the last section to surface casing reqs

* Minor edits

---------

Co-authored-by: Amanda Quach <147530771+quachlingA@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/security/cloud_siem/detect_and_monitor/mitre_attack_map.md, after:

---
title: MITRE ATT&CK Map
disable_toc: false
aliases:
  - /security/cloud_siem/detection_rules/attack_map
  - /security/cloud_siem/detection_rules/mitre_attack_map
further_reading:
- link: "/security/cloud_siem/detect_and_monitor/custom_detection_rules/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Create custom detection rules"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/cloud-siem-mitre-attack-map/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Identify gaps to strengthen detection coverage with the Datadog Cloud SIEM MITRE ATT&CK Map"
---

## Overview

<div class="alert alert-danger">The MITRE ATT&CK Map only covers <a href="https://attack.mitre.org/matrices/enterprise/">MITRE ATT&CK Enterprise.</a></div>

The MITRE ATT&CK Framework is a knowledge base used to develop specific threat models and methodologies. Use the Cloud SIEM MITRE ATT&CK Map to explore and visualize the MITRE ATT&CK Framework against Datadog's out-of-the-box rules and your custom detection rules. The MITRE ATT&CK Map displays detection rule density as a heat map to provide visibility into attacker techniques. Your security teams can use the heat map to assess gaps in coverage that is relevant to their organization or team and prioritize improvements to their detection rule defenses.

## View detection rules in the MITRE ATT&CK Map

To view detection rules against the MITRE ATT&CK Framework:
1. Navigate to the [Detection Rules][1] page.
1. Click the **MITRE ATT&CK Map** button located next to **Rules List**.
1. Toggle the resize button on the bottom left side of the page to switch between an expanded view and a condensed view.

The default view of the map shows all Datadog out-of-the-box and custom rules for active sources, broken down into different attack techniques. Active sources are the sources of logs found and analyzed in the Cloud SIEM index.

**Note**: For the legacy SKU, all ingested logs are analyzed by Cloud SIEM unless [security filters][2] have been set up.

To view the map for all sources, in the **Visualize** dropdown menu, select **All Sources**. This shows all out-of-the-box rules, including those that are not currently used to detect threats from your logs.

Click the rule density buttons to visualize the map for a specific number of rules. For example, if you click **High 7+**, only tiles that have more than seven rules enabled are shown on the map.

### View an attacker technique's information and related rules

To view more information about a technique and the rules monitoring the technique:

1. On the [MITRE ATT&CK Map][3] page, click on a technique tile.
1. Click **Create Custom Rule** if you want to create a custom rule for this technique. See [Detection Rules][4] for more information on creating custom rules. **Note**: For the custom rule to show within active sources, the appropriate source tag must be defined in the detection rule.
1. In the **Rules monitoring this Technique** section, you can:
	1. Enter a search query to filter to specific rules.
  1. Sort by the creation date, rule type, rule name, source, or highest severity.
  1. Toggle **Show deprecated rules** to see deprecated rules for this technique.

### Add attacker technique and tactic tags to custom rules

Custom rules only show up in the map if they are tagged in the rule editor with both the correct MITRE tactic and technique. The tactic and technique must also be paired correctly. If the correct format and pairing are not used, the rule does not show up in the map when you use the search bar to filter for that rule.

This is an example of the format you need to use for tagging custom rules and the correct pairing of tactic and technique tags:

- `tactic:<tactic number>-<tactic name>`
    - For example: `tactic:TA0001-Initial-Access`
- `technique:<technique number>-<technique name>`
    - For example: `technique:T1566-Phishing`

Note the following formatting details:
- The tag prefix (`tactic` or `technique`) **must be lowercase**
- The technique number is case insensitive
    - For example: `TA0001` or `ta0001`
- Dashes and underscores are interchangeable
    - For example: `technique:T1566-Phishing` or `technique:T1566_Phishing`

**Note**: The tactic and technique need to be based on the MITRE ATT&CK version stated on the [MITRE ATT&CK Map][3] page.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/siem/rules
[2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/cloud_siem/guide/how-to-setup-security-filters-using-cloud-siem-api/
[3]: https://app.datadoghq.com/security/siem/rules?query=product=siem&sort=date&viz=attck-map
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/cloud_siem/detect_and_monitor/custom_detection_rules/?tab=threshold
