1. For **Create keyword dictionary**, add keywords to refine detection accuracy when matching regex conditions. For example, if you are scanning for a sixteen-digit Visa credit card number, you can add keywords like `visa`, `credit`, and `card`. You can also require that these keywords must be within a specified number of characters of a match. By default, keywords must be within 30 characters before a matched value.
1. For **Define actions on match**, select the action you want to take for the matched information. **Note**: Redaction, partial redaction, and hashing are all irreversible actions.
    - **Redact**: Replaces all matching values with the text you specify in the **Replacement text** field.
    - **Partially Redact**: Replaces a specified portion of all matched data. In the **Redact** section, specify the number of characters you want to redact and which part of the matched data to redact.
    - **Hash**: Replaces all matched data with a unique identifier. The UTF-8 bytes of the match is hashed with the 64-bit fingerprint of FarmHash.
1. Optionally, add tags you want to associate with events where the values match the specified regex pattern. Datadog recommends using `sensitive_data` and `sensitive_data_category` tags. These tags can then be used in searches, dashboards, and monitors. See [Control access to logs with sensitive data](#control-access-to-logs-with-sensitive-data) for information on how to use tags to determine who can access logs containing sensitive information.
1. For **Set priority level**, select the priority level for the rule based on your business needs.
1. In the **Name and describe the scanning rule** section, enter a name for the rule. Optionally, add a description.