content/en/developers/dogstatsd/datagram_shell.md, before:

---
title: Datagram Format and Shell Usage
kind: documentation
description: Overview of the datagram format used by DogStatsD as well as (advanced) shell usage.
aliases:
    - /developers/dogstatsd/data_types/
further_reading:
    - link: 'developers/dogstatsd'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Introduction to DogStatsD'
    - link: 'developers/libraries'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Official and Community created API and DogStatsD client libraries'
    - link: 'https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/tree/main/pkg/dogstatsd'
      tag: 'GitHub'
      text: 'DogStatsD source code'
---

This section specifies the raw datagram format for metrics, events, and service checks that DogStatsD accepts. The raw datagrams are encoded in UTF-8. This isn't required reading if you're using any of [the DogStatsD client libraries][1]; however, if you want to write your own library, or use the shell to send metrics, then read on.

## The DogStatsD protocol

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

`<METRIC_NAME>:<VALUE>|<TYPE>|@<SAMPLE_RATE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>`

| Parameter                           | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<METRIC_NAME>`                     | Yes      | A string that contains only ASCII alphanumerics, underscores, and periods. See the [metric naming policy][1].                                                  |
| `<VALUE>`                           | Yes      | An integer or float.                                                                                                                                           |
| `<TYPE>`                            | Yes      | `c` for COUNT, `g` for GAUGE, `ms` for TIMER, `h` for HISTOGRAM, `s` for SET, `d` for DISTRIBUTION. See [Metric Types][2] for more details.                    |
| `<SAMPLE_RATE>`                     | No       | A float between `0` and `1`, inclusive. Only works with COUNT, HISTOGRAM, DISTRIBUTION, and TIMER metrics. The default is `1`, which samples 100% of the time. |
| `<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>` | No       | A comma separated list of strings. Use colons for key/value tags (`env:prod`). For guidance on defining tags, see [Getting Started with Tags][3].              |

Here are some example datagrams:

- `page.views:1|c` : Increment the `page.views` COUNT metric.
- `fuel.level:0.5|g`: Record the fuel tank is half-empty.
- `song.length:240|h|@0.5`: Sample the `song.length` histogram as if it was sent half of the time.
- `users.uniques:1234|s`: Track unique visitors to the site.
- `users.online:1|c|#country:china`: Increment the active users COUNT metric and tag by country of origin.
- `users.online:1|c|@0.5|#country:china`: Track active China users and use a sample rate.

### DogStatsD protocol v1.1

Starting with the Agent `>=v6.25.0` && `<v7.0.0` or `>=v7.25.0`, value packing is possible. This
is supported for all metric types except `SET`. Values are separated by a `:`, for example:

`<METRIC_NAME>:<VALUE1>:<VALUE2>:<VALUE3>|<TYPE>|@<SAMPLE_RATE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>`

`TYPE`, `SAMPLE_RATE`, and `TAGS` are shared between all values. This produces the same metrics than sending multiple
messages with one value in each. This is useful for HISTOGRAM, TIMING, and DISTRIBUTION metrics.

### Example datagrams

- `page.views:1:2:32|d`: Sample the `page.views` DISTRIBUTION metric three times with values `1`, `2` and `32`.
- `song.length:240:234|h|@0.5`: Sample the `song.length` histogram as if it was sent half of the time, twice. Each value has the sample rate of `0.5` applied to it.

[1]: /metrics/#naming-metrics
[2]: /metrics/types/
[3]: /getting_started/tagging/
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Events" %}}

`_e{<TITLE_UTF8_LENGTH>,<TEXT_UTF8_LENGTH>}:<TITLE>|<TEXT>|d:<TIMESTAMP>|h:<HOSTNAME>|p:<PRIORITY>|t:<ALERT_TYPE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>`

| Parameter                            | Required | Description                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `_e`                                 | Yes      | The datagram must begin with `_e`.                                                                                     |
| `<TITLE>`                            | Yes      | The event title.                                                                                                       |
| `<TEXT>`                             | Yes      | The event text. Insert line breaks with: `\\n`.                                                                        |
| `<TITLE_UTF8_LENGTH>`                | Yes      | The length (in bytes) of the UTF-8-encoded `<TITLE>`                                                                              |
| `<TEXT_UTF8_LENGTH>`                 | Yes      | The length (in bytes) of the UTF-8-encoded `<TEXT>`                                                                               |
| `d:<TIMESTAMP>`                      | No       | Add a timestamp to the event. The default is the current Unix epoch timestamp.                                         |
| `h:<HOSTNAME>`                       | No       | Add a hostname to the event. No default.                                                                               |
| `k:<AGGREGATION_KEY>`                | No       | Add an aggregation key to group the event with others that have the same key. No default.                              |
| `p:<PRIORITY>`                       | No       | Set to `normal` or `low`. Default `normal`.                                                                            |
| `s:<SOURCE_TYPE_NAME>`               | No       | Add a source type to the event. No default.                                                                            |
| `t:<ALERT_TYPE>`                     | No       | Set to `error`, `warning`, `info` or `success`. Default `info`.                                                        |
| `#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>` | No       | The colon in tags is part of the tag list string and has no parsing purpose like for the other parameters. No default. |

Here are some example datagrams:

```text
## Send an exception
_e{21,36}:An exception occurred|Cannot parse CSV file from 10.0.0.17|t:warning|#err_type:bad_file

## Send an event with a newline in the text
_e{21,42}:An exception occurred|Cannot parse JSON request:\\n{"foo: "bar"}|p:low|#err_type:bad_request
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Service Checks" %}}

`_sc|<NAME>|<STATUS>|d:<TIMESTAMP>|h:<HOSTNAME>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>|m:<SERVICE_CHECK_MESSAGE>`

| Parameter                            | Required | Description                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------ | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `_sc`                                | Yes      | The datagram must begin with `_sc`.                                                                                                     |
| `<NAME>`                             | Yes      | The service check name.                                                                                                                 |
| `<STATUS>`                           | Yes      | An integer corresponding to the check status (OK = `0`, WARNING = `1`, CRITICAL = `2`, UNKNOWN = `3`).                                  |
| `d:<TIMESTAMP>`                      | No       | Add a timestamp to the check. The default is the current Unix epoch timestamp.                                                          |
| `h:<HOSTNAME>`                       | No       | Add a hostname to the event (no default).                                                                                               |
| `#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>` | No       | Set the tags of the event. A list of strings separated by comma (no default).                                                           |
| `m:<SERVICE_CHECK_MESSAGE>`          | No       | A message describing the current state of the service check. This field MUST be positioned last among the metadata fields (no default). |

Here's an example datagram:

```text
# Send a CRITICAL status for a remote connection
_sc|Redis connection|2|#env:dev|m:Redis connection timed out after 10s
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Send metrics using DogStatsD and the shell

For Linux and other Unix-like OS, use Bash. For Windows, use PowerShell and [PowerShell-statsd][2] (a simple PowerShell function that takes care of the network bits).

DogStatsD creates a message that contains information about your metric, event, or service check and sends it to a locally installed Agent as a collector. The destination IP address is `127.0.0.1` and the collector port over UDP is `8125`. See [DogStatsD][3] for details on configuring the Agent.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

The format for sending metrics is:

```text
<METRIC_NAME>:<VALUE>|<TYPE>|@<SAMPLE_RATE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>
```

The examples below send data points for a gauge metric called `custom_metric` with the `shell` tag.

On Linux:

```shell
echo -n "custom_metric:60|g|#shell" >/dev/udp/localhost/8125
```

```shell
echo -n "custom_metric:60|g|#shell" | nc -4u -w0 127.0.0.1 8125
```

```shell
echo -n "custom.metric.name:1|c"|nc -4u -w1 localhost 8125
```

On Windows:

```powershell
PS C:\> .\send-statsd.ps1 "custom_metric:123|g|#shell"
```

On any platform with Python (on Windows, the Agent's embedded Python interpreter can be used, which is located at `%PROGRAMFILES%\Datadog\Datadog Agent\embedded\python.exe` for Agent versions <= 6.11 and in `%PROGRAMFILES%\Datadog\Datadog Agent\embedded<PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION>\python.exe` for Agent versions >= 6.12):

### Python 2

```python
import socket
sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_DGRAM) # UDP
sock.sendto("custom_metric:60|g|#shell", ("localhost", 8125))
```

### Python 3

```python
import socket
sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_DGRAM) # UDP
sock.sendto(b"custom_metric:60|g|#shell", ("localhost", 8125))
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Events" %}}

The format for sending events is:

```text
_e{<TITLE>.length,<TEXT>.length}:<TITLE>|<TEXT>|d:<DATE_EVENT>|h:<HOSTNAME>|p:<PRIORITY>|t:<ALERT_TYPE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>.
```

The examples below calculate the size of the event's title and body.

On Linux:

```shell
$ title="Event from the shell"

$ text="This was sent from Bash!"

$ echo "_e{${#title},${#text}}:$title|$text|#shell,bash"  >/dev/udp/localhost/8125
```

On Windows:

```powershell
PS C:> $title = "Event from the shell"
PS C:> $text = "This was sent from PowerShell!"
PS C:> .\send-statsd.ps1 "_e{$($title.length),$($text.Length)}:$title|$text|#shell,PowerShell"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Service Checks" %}}

The format for sending service checks is:

```text
_sc|<NAME>|<STATUS>|d:<TIMESTAMP>|h:<HOSTNAME>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>|m:<SERVICE_CHECK_MESSAGE>
```

On Linux:

```shell
echo -n "_sc|Redis connection|2|#env:dev|m:Redis connection timed out after 10s" >/dev/udp/localhost/8125
```

On Windows:

```powershell
PS C:\> .\send-statsd.ps1 "_sc|Redis connection|2|#env:dev|m:Redis connection timed out after 10s"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

To send metrics, events, or service checks on containerized environments, see [DogStatsD on Kubernetes][3], in conjunction with [configuring APM on Kubernetes][4], depending on your installation. The [Docker APM][5] documentation may also be helpful.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /developers/community/libraries/#api-and-dogstatsd-client-libraries
[2]: https://github.com/joehack3r/powershell-statsd/blob/master/send-statsd.ps1
[3]: /developers/dogstatsd/
[4]: /agent/kubernetes/apm/
[5]: /agent/docker/apm/

Commit message:

Document dogstatsd protocol v1.2 (#13241)
* Document dogstatsd protocol v1.2

* fix capitalization of DogStatsD

Co-authored-by: Ursula Chen <58821586+urseberry@users.noreply.github.com>

content/en/developers/dogstatsd/datagram_shell.md, after:

---
title: Datagram Format and Shell Usage
kind: documentation
description: Overview of the datagram format used by DogStatsD as well as (advanced) shell usage.
aliases:
    - /developers/dogstatsd/data_types/
further_reading:
    - link: 'developers/dogstatsd'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Introduction to DogStatsD'
    - link: 'developers/libraries'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Official and Community created API and DogStatsD client libraries'
    - link: 'https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/tree/main/pkg/dogstatsd'
      tag: 'GitHub'
      text: 'DogStatsD source code'
---

This section specifies the raw datagram format for metrics, events, and service checks that DogStatsD accepts. The raw datagrams are encoded in UTF-8. This isn't required reading if you're using any of [the DogStatsD client libraries][1]; however, if you want to write your own library, or use the shell to send metrics, then read on.

## The DogStatsD protocol

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

`<METRIC_NAME>:<VALUE>|<TYPE>|@<SAMPLE_RATE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>`

| Parameter                           | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------------------------- | -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<METRIC_NAME>`                     | Yes      | A string that contains only ASCII alphanumerics, underscores, and periods. See the [metric naming policy][1].                                                  |
| `<VALUE>`                           | Yes      | An integer or float.                                                                                                                                           |
| `<TYPE>`                            | Yes      | `c` for COUNT, `g` for GAUGE, `ms` for TIMER, `h` for HISTOGRAM, `s` for SET, `d` for DISTRIBUTION. See [Metric Types][2] for more details.                    |
| `<SAMPLE_RATE>`                     | No       | A float between `0` and `1`, inclusive. Only works with COUNT, HISTOGRAM, DISTRIBUTION, and TIMER metrics. The default is `1`, which samples 100% of the time. |
| `<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>` | No       | A comma separated list of strings. Use colons for key/value tags (`env:prod`). For guidance on defining tags, see [Getting Started with Tags][3].              |

Here are some example datagrams:

- `page.views:1|c` : Increment the `page.views` COUNT metric.
- `fuel.level:0.5|g`: Record the fuel tank is half-empty.
- `song.length:240|h|@0.5`: Sample the `song.length` histogram as if it was sent half of the time.
- `users.uniques:1234|s`: Track unique visitors to the site.
- `users.online:1|c|#country:china`: Increment the active users COUNT metric and tag by country of origin.
- `users.online:1|c|@0.5|#country:china`: Track active China users and use a sample rate.

### DogStatsD protocol v1.1

Starting with the Agent `>=v6.25.0` && `<v7.0.0` or `>=v7.25.0`, value packing is possible. This
is supported for all metric types except `SET`. Values are separated by a `:`, for example:

`<METRIC_NAME>:<VALUE1>:<VALUE2>:<VALUE3>|<TYPE>|@<SAMPLE_RATE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>`

`TYPE`, `SAMPLE_RATE`, and `TAGS` are shared between all values. This produces the same metrics than sending multiple
messages with one value in each. This is useful for HISTOGRAM, TIMING, and DISTRIBUTION metrics.

### Example datagrams

- `page.views:1:2:32|d`: Sample the `page.views` DISTRIBUTION metric three times with values `1`, `2` and `32`.
- `song.length:240:234|h|@0.5`: Sample the `song.length` histogram as if it was sent half of the time, twice. Each value has the sample rate of `0.5` applied to it.

### DogStatsD protocol v1.2

Starting with the Agent `>=v6.35.0` && `<v7.0.0` or `>=v7.35.0`, a new container ID field is supported.
The Datadog Agent uses the container ID value to enrich DogStatsD metrics with additional container tags.

The container ID is prefixed by `c:`, for example:

`<METRIC_NAME>:<VALUE>|<TYPE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>|c:<CONTAINER_ID>`

**Note:** Set `dogstatsd_origin_detection_client` to `true` in your `datadog.yaml` file or the environment variable `DD_DOGSTATSD_ORIGIN_DETECTION_CLIENT=true` to instruct the Datadog Agent to extract the container ID field and attach the corresponding container tags.

### Example datagrams

- `page.views:1|g|#env:dev|c:83c0a99c0a54c0c187f461c7980e9b57f3f6a8b0c918c8d93df19a9de6f3fe1d`: The Datadog Agent adds container tags like `image_name` and `image_tag` to the `page.views` metric.

Read more about container tags in the [Kubernetes][4] and [Docker][5] tagging documentation.

[1]: /metrics/#naming-metrics
[2]: /metrics/types/
[3]: /getting_started/tagging/
[4]: /agent/kubernetes/tag/?tab=containerizedagent#out-of-the-box-tags
[5]: /agent/docker/tag/?tab=containerizedagent#out-of-the-box-tagging
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Events" %}}

`_e{<TITLE_UTF8_LENGTH>,<TEXT_UTF8_LENGTH>}:<TITLE>|<TEXT>|d:<TIMESTAMP>|h:<HOSTNAME>|p:<PRIORITY>|t:<ALERT_TYPE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>`

| Parameter                            | Required | Description                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `_e`                                 | Yes      | The datagram must begin with `_e`.                                                                                     |
| `<TITLE>`                            | Yes      | The event title.                                                                                                       |
| `<TEXT>`                             | Yes      | The event text. Insert line breaks with: `\\n`.                                                                        |
| `<TITLE_UTF8_LENGTH>`                | Yes      | The length (in bytes) of the UTF-8-encoded `<TITLE>`                                                                              |
| `<TEXT_UTF8_LENGTH>`                 | Yes      | The length (in bytes) of the UTF-8-encoded `<TEXT>`                                                                               |
| `d:<TIMESTAMP>`                      | No       | Add a timestamp to the event. The default is the current Unix epoch timestamp.                                         |
| `h:<HOSTNAME>`                       | No       | Add a hostname to the event. No default.                                                                               |
| `k:<AGGREGATION_KEY>`                | No       | Add an aggregation key to group the event with others that have the same key. No default.                              |
| `p:<PRIORITY>`                       | No       | Set to `normal` or `low`. Default `normal`.                                                                            |
| `s:<SOURCE_TYPE_NAME>`               | No       | Add a source type to the event. No default.                                                                            |
| `t:<ALERT_TYPE>`                     | No       | Set to `error`, `warning`, `info` or `success`. Default `info`.                                                        |
| `#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>` | No       | The colon in tags is part of the tag list string and has no parsing purpose like for the other parameters. No default. |

Here are some example datagrams:

```text
## Send an exception
_e{21,36}:An exception occurred|Cannot parse CSV file from 10.0.0.17|t:warning|#err_type:bad_file

## Send an event with a newline in the text
_e{21,42}:An exception occurred|Cannot parse JSON request:\\n{"foo: "bar"}|p:low|#err_type:bad_request
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Service Checks" %}}

`_sc|<NAME>|<STATUS>|d:<TIMESTAMP>|h:<HOSTNAME>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>|m:<SERVICE_CHECK_MESSAGE>`

| Parameter                            | Required | Description                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------ | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `_sc`                                | Yes      | The datagram must begin with `_sc`.                                                                                                     |
| `<NAME>`                             | Yes      | The service check name.                                                                                                                 |
| `<STATUS>`                           | Yes      | An integer corresponding to the check status (OK = `0`, WARNING = `1`, CRITICAL = `2`, UNKNOWN = `3`).                                  |
| `d:<TIMESTAMP>`                      | No       | Add a timestamp to the check. The default is the current Unix epoch timestamp.                                                          |
| `h:<HOSTNAME>`                       | No       | Add a hostname to the event (no default).                                                                                               |
| `#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>` | No       | Set the tags of the event. A list of strings separated by comma (no default).                                                           |
| `m:<SERVICE_CHECK_MESSAGE>`          | No       | A message describing the current state of the service check. This field MUST be positioned last among the metadata fields (no default). |

Here's an example datagram:

```text
# Send a CRITICAL status for a remote connection
_sc|Redis connection|2|#env:dev|m:Redis connection timed out after 10s
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Send metrics using DogStatsD and the shell

For Linux and other Unix-like OS, use Bash. For Windows, use PowerShell and [PowerShell-statsd][2] (a simple PowerShell function that takes care of the network bits).

DogStatsD creates a message that contains information about your metric, event, or service check and sends it to a locally installed Agent as a collector. The destination IP address is `127.0.0.1` and the collector port over UDP is `8125`. See [DogStatsD][3] for details on configuring the Agent.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Metrics" %}}

The format for sending metrics is:

```text
<METRIC_NAME>:<VALUE>|<TYPE>|@<SAMPLE_RATE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>
```

The examples below send data points for a gauge metric called `custom_metric` with the `shell` tag.

On Linux:

```shell
echo -n "custom_metric:60|g|#shell" >/dev/udp/localhost/8125
```

```shell
echo -n "custom_metric:60|g|#shell" | nc -4u -w0 127.0.0.1 8125
```

```shell
echo -n "custom.metric.name:1|c"|nc -4u -w1 localhost 8125
```

On Windows:

```powershell
PS C:\> .\send-statsd.ps1 "custom_metric:123|g|#shell"
```

On any platform with Python (on Windows, the Agent's embedded Python interpreter can be used, which is located at `%PROGRAMFILES%\Datadog\Datadog Agent\embedded\python.exe` for Agent versions <= 6.11 and in `%PROGRAMFILES%\Datadog\Datadog Agent\embedded<PYTHON_MAJOR_VERSION>\python.exe` for Agent versions >= 6.12):

### Python 2

```python
import socket
sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_DGRAM) # UDP
sock.sendto("custom_metric:60|g|#shell", ("localhost", 8125))
```

### Python 3

```python
import socket
sock = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_DGRAM) # UDP
sock.sendto(b"custom_metric:60|g|#shell", ("localhost", 8125))
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Events" %}}

The format for sending events is:

```text
_e{<TITLE>.length,<TEXT>.length}:<TITLE>|<TEXT>|d:<DATE_EVENT>|h:<HOSTNAME>|p:<PRIORITY>|t:<ALERT_TYPE>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>,<TAG_2>.
```

The examples below calculate the size of the event's title and body.

On Linux:

```shell
$ title="Event from the shell"

$ text="This was sent from Bash!"

$ echo "_e{${#title},${#text}}:$title|$text|#shell,bash"  >/dev/udp/localhost/8125
```

On Windows:

```powershell
PS C:> $title = "Event from the shell"
PS C:> $text = "This was sent from PowerShell!"
PS C:> .\send-statsd.ps1 "_e{$($title.length),$($text.Length)}:$title|$text|#shell,PowerShell"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Service Checks" %}}

The format for sending service checks is:

```text
_sc|<NAME>|<STATUS>|d:<TIMESTAMP>|h:<HOSTNAME>|#<TAG_KEY_1>:<TAG_VALUE_1>|m:<SERVICE_CHECK_MESSAGE>
```

On Linux:

```shell
echo -n "_sc|Redis connection|2|#env:dev|m:Redis connection timed out after 10s" >/dev/udp/localhost/8125
```

On Windows:

```powershell
PS C:\> .\send-statsd.ps1 "_sc|Redis connection|2|#env:dev|m:Redis connection timed out after 10s"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

To send metrics, events, or service checks on containerized environments, see [DogStatsD on Kubernetes][3], in conjunction with [configuring APM on Kubernetes][4], depending on your installation. The [Docker APM][5] documentation may also be helpful.

## Further Reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /developers/community/libraries/#api-and-dogstatsd-client-libraries
[2]: https://github.com/joehack3r/powershell-statsd/blob/master/send-statsd.ps1
[3]: /developers/dogstatsd/
[4]: /agent/kubernetes/apm/
[5]: /agent/docker/apm/
